HP 2011   Global Citizenship  Report Commitment see page 3 See an overview of our global citizenship activities online at www.hp.com/go/globalcitizenship. Environment see page 18 Society see page 80 About this report see page 173  Table of contents 3  Commitment 4  Letter from CEO Meg Whitman 5	 HP	profile 7  Global citizenship strategy 8  Global citizenship and business value  10  Global citizenship governance 12  Stakeholder engagement 14  Perspectives 15	 Affiliations	and	memberships 17  Policies 18 Environment 19  Environmental sustainability 21  Collaboration 23  Employee engagement 24  Energy and climate 27  Paper 29  Products and solutions 31  Life cycle assessment 33  Research and development 34  Design 36  Materials 38  Manufacturing 41  Packaging 43  Transport 44  Use 47  Product reuse and recycling 48  Programs 50  Performance 51  Vendor audits 52  HP operations 53  Management and compliance 53  Energy and GHG emissions 55	 Energy	efficiency 57  Renewable energy 58  Travel 59  Waste and recycling 61  Water  63  Sustainable building design 63  Toxics release inventory 64  Ozone-depleting substances 65  Remediation 65  HP list of major operations 67  Tech gallery: environment 69  Data dashboard: environment 75  Goals: environment 80 Society 81  Ethics and human rights 82  Ethics and compliance 85  Human rights 87	 Conflict	minerals 91  Supply chain responsibility 96  Our approach 99  Performance  102	 Detailed	audit	findings 108  Collaboration  110  Capability building 113  Perspective: So Sheung 115  Supplier diversity 117  Privacy 118  Approach 120  HP people 121  Engaging our people 123  Building careers 125  Diversity and inclusion 128	 Rewards	and	benefits 129  Wellness 132  Health and safety 136  Employee gallery 147  Social innovation 148  Education 150  Entrepreneurship 151  Health 152  Employee volunteerism and giving 154  Performance 157  Tech gallery: social innovation 158  Public policy 160  Economic impacts 162  Data dashboard: society 166  Goals: society 173 About this report 174  Overview 175  Assurance 176  UN Global Compact 177  GRI index  Commitment 4  Letter from CEO Meg Whitman 5	 HP	profile 7  Global citizenship strategy 12  Stakeholder engagement 14  Perspectives 15	 Affiliations	and	memberships 17  Policies At HP, we embrace our role as a global citizen. As one of the worlds  largest information technology companies, what we do and how we  do it matters. Thats why we use global citizenship to help shape and  advance our business strategy.   4 Contents Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Commitment Letter from CEO  Meg Whitman Welcome to the HP Global Citizenship Report. This is HPs annual scorecard for areas like sustainability, social innovation, employment  practices, and ethics and compliance, but really, we look at it as a scorecard on our values.  The principles of global citizenship have been core to HPs success for more than 70 years.  We apply the power of our technology, partnerships, and the expertise of more than  300,000 employees to have a positive impact on society and the world.  For example, were helping improve world health through drug authentication and by acceler- ating the diagnosis of HIV in infants. Were helping improve world education through the HP  Catalyst Initiative, which brings together some of the best educators to devise new ways of  engaging students in science, technology, engineering, and math. Were helping improve  world working and living standards through the power and leverage of our supply chain. Were  helping make the world greener by continuing to meet and exceed our industry-leading goals  for reducing the environmental impact of our operations and products, and by helping our  customers reduce their environmental impact. Were also helping get the world involved with  HP employees and retirees volunteering more than 744,000 hours of their energy and exper- tise last year.  As the industrys largest provider of information technology infrastructure, software,  services, and solutions, we know that we can help advance the way people live and work.  We also recognize that the worlds challenges are too big for any single organization to  address	alone,	so	were	teaming	up	with	partners	worldwide	to	find	solutions.	We	cultivate	 relationships with diverse stakeholders, such as social entrepreneurs, industry peers,  governments, and nongovernmental organizations. In addition, to promote higher standards  across sectors, we endorse the UN Global Compact. In the Global Citizenship Report, youll learn about these stories, programs, policies, and many  more. We believe that good citizenship and good business go hand in hand. A reputation as a  responsible corporate citizen is a competitive advantage that supports our customer relation- ships, our employee commitment and our shareholder value. I hope you enjoy this years report and I look forward to continuing HPs important work that  makes	a	real	difference	in	the	world.	 Best, Meg  5 Contents Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Commitment HP profile HP is one of the worlds largest providers of information technology infrastructure, soft- ware, services, and solutions to individuals and organizations of all sizes. We bring the  advantages of our scale, the breadth and depth of our portfolio, our innovation, and our  competitiveness to our customers every day and in almost every country in the world. HP is at the forefront of technological advances that improve the way we live and work,  empowering HP to play a vital role in addressing serious global challenges and creating  sustainable growth. Examples of HP innovations that improve our environment and our  society include: 	Cloud Sustainability Dashboard HP has developed a Cloud Sustainability Dashboard to  help IT professionals better understand and quantify the sustainability impact of cloud  computing. Read more in Research and development on page 33. 	Global Authentication Service HP is working with nongovernmental organizations,  companies in the pharmaceutical industry, and others to combat the challenge of counter- feit medicines. Read more in Health on page 151. 	HP Early Infant Diagnosis HP is working with the Kenyan government to reduce the time  it takes to diagnose an HIV-positive infant. Read more in Health on page 151. Looking back at fiscal year 2011 (FY11):   A year of changes and challenges In	2011,	an	uncertain	macroeconomic	environment,	natural	disasters	that	affected	our	 supply chain and inventory, several strategic announcements, leadership changes, and  inconsistent	overall	performance	all	contributed	to	a	year	of	mixed	financial	results.	 Despite these challenges, our businesses remain strong and HP is well positioned for the  future, maintaining our number one or number two share positions across the majority   of our portfolio.  Our strategy The advances and innovations that enable HP to help address some of the worlds most  daunting challenges are based on the foundation of the companys strategy.  Highlights $127 billion USD Recorded $127 billion USD in net revenue for FY11. 52 million HP shipped more than 52 million printers in 2011.* 62 million HP shipped more than 62 million PC units in 2011.** 92% of the Fortune 100 are HP Software customers.  * IDC WW Quarterly Hardcopy Peripherals Tracker, February 2012.  This data is calendar year. ** IDC WW Quarterly PC Tracker, January 11, 2012. This data is  calendar year.  6 Contents Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Commitment Build the core HP infrastructure HPs hardware franchises, market-leading server,  storage, and networking business, and PC, imaging, and printing  groups account for about 70% of our revenue. Everything we do  either	amplifies	or	builds	on	this	unique	strength. Expand the core Software HP provides best-in-class software to expand, optimize,  and	manage	the	core.	Our	software	differentiates	our	hardware	to	 improve its performance and help solve customer problems. It also  allows us to manage heterogeneous environments, consisting of  our infrastructure as well as others. The addition of Autonomy to  HP provides a platform that enables us to address customers infor- mation-management challenges. Add value to the core Services HP services envelop our core infrastructure and software  to enable customers to get increased value from HP. Through broad  offerings	such	as	outsourcing,	application,	consulting,	and	tech- nology services, we work to ensure that our technology meets  customer needs. We build relationships that can last for decades. Make it work Solutions Our solutions add value by combining our technologies to  advance customers business objectives in a holistic and compelling  way.	We	have	packaged	our	capabilities	into	five	key	solution	areas:	 converged infrastructure, application transformation, enterprise  security, information optimization, and hybrid delivery. HP	strives	to	define	markets	and	lead	in	innovation.	We	increased	 research and development spending in 2011, to $3.2 billion USD,  and expect to continue to bring the very best innovations to market. Shared values  HPs shared values and company-wide objectives include a long- standing commitment to global citizenship. Broader than any single  organization or program, global citizenship at HP determines how  we capitalize on our technologies and expertise to help address the  worlds major social and environmental challenges and accelerate  positive change.  HP corporate summary Fortune 11—United States Fortune 28—Global President	and	Chief	Executive	Officer:	Meg Whitman Nearly 350,000 employees*  Incorporated in Delaware, United States Listed on the New York Stock Exchange with the ticker symbol HPQ Corporate and regional headquarters Recorded $127 billion USD in net revenue for FY11  * As of October 31, 2011. Revenue by segment, fiscal year 2011 [percentage]    Imaging and Printing Group 20%    Personal Systems Group 30%    Services 27%    Enterprise Servers, Storage, and Networking 17%    HP Software 3%    HP Financial Services 3% Revenue by region, fiscal year 2011* [percentage]    Americas  45% United States 35% Canada, Latin America, and Other 10%    Europe, Middle East, and Africa 37% 			Asia	Pacific 19%  * Does not total 100% due to rounding.  7 Contents Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Commitment Global citizenship  strategy As one of the worlds largest technology companies—with operations in more than  170countries—our	technology	and	our	people	matter	to	the	world.	Global	citizenship	  is rooted in values that have successfully guided our company for more than 70 years.  Employees, customers, and other key stakeholders increasingly look to HP for leadership   in responsible operations, innovative products and solutions, collaboration, and capability  building.  HP embraces our role as a global citizen, and we recognize that what we do and how we do  it matters. Global citizenship is pervasive throughout our business strategy. It is integrated  into our policies and aligns with our core values. It spans everything from ethics, human  rights, and environmental sustainability to privacy, responsible supply chain management,  and social innovation. Nearly 350,000 employees1 live our values, every day.  Today the world faces serious challenges—such as responsibly meeting the needs of a  fast-growing	population,	addressing	the	effects	of	climate	change,	and	advancing	global	 health solutions. No single entity can meet these challenges alone. Governments, nongov- ernmental organizations, and companies all have an essential role to play.  To make a positive impact, we collaborate across institutions, industries, sectors, and  borders. We apply our scale, talent, partnerships, and portfolio to help develop solutions  to major environmental and social issues.  Through	these	efforts,	we	build	strong,	collaborative,	and	trusting	relationships	with	diverse	 stakeholders.	Their	commitment	and	expertise	help	us	to	refine	our	global	citizenship	 strategy to improve the lives and businesses of people around the world.  Global citizenship also makes us more competitive, spurs innovation, helps us attract and  retain the best employees, and fuels growth. (See Global citizenship and business value on  page 8.)  The betterment of our  society is not a job to be  left to a few. Its a  responsibility to be  shared by all. —David Packard, Co-founder, HP 1 As of October 31, 2011.  8 Contents Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Commitment Global citizenship priorities  HP	believes	that	by	operating	profitably	and	responsibly,	we	make	a	 positive impact on communities worldwide. We are well positioned  to help address the worlds major environmental and social chal- lenges and accelerate change in several important areas. During the  coming decade, we intend to continue to focus on enhancing envi- ronmental sustainability across the product life cycle, building a  leading human rights program, promoting supply chain responsi- bility and improving suppliers capabilities, being among the leaders  in	the	industry	to	eliminate	conflict	minerals,	advancing	an	account- ability approach to ensure respect for privacy, and addressing global  health and education issues through social innovation. Global citizenship reporting We embrace transparency and accountability when communicating  our progress in global citizenship. This is the 11th consecutive year  that HP has reported on its global citizenship programs, performance,  and goals. Over that period, we have broadened the scope of our  Global Citizenship Report substantially, providing greater transpar- ency into our operations, employee practices, product development  process, supply chain management, social investments, and other  aspects of our business. (See Overview on page 174 for more detail.) Global citizenship and  business value  Global citizenship is an important source of business value for HP.  Our	efforts	enhance	our	reputation,	strengthen	our	relationships	 with customers and other stakeholders, open up new market  opportunities, and stimulate innovation and creativity.  Our investments in this area strengthen our business in numerous  ways. Global citizenship–related business value drivers include   the following: Access to capital Investors increasingly consider global citizenship  programs and performance in investment decisions (see Investors  on page 10). Competitiveness Leadership in global citizenship builds trust with  customers, spurs innovation, and helps us identity opportunities  for growth. Cost savings	Energy	efficiency	and	other	conservation	efforts	in	our	 operations and those of our suppliers reduce costs and increase  productivity. See HP operations on page 52 and Manufacturing  on page 38.  Customer insight Global citizenship helps us understand and meet  customer expectations in areas such as product environmental  performance, privacy, and supply chain responsibility (see  Customers on page 9). Employee engagement By demonstrating a commitment to global  citizenship and actively engaging employees in volunteering projects,  we instill pride in HP as a company that matters, helping us attract  and retain the most talented workforce. See HP people on page 120. External engagement Engaging with stakeholders brings insight  into emerging trends, risks, and opportunities. See Stakeholder  engagement on page 12. Influence Global citizenship gives us a powerful voice on issues   that are vital to our industry, our customers, and the world. Innovation We sharpen our competitive advantage by developing  groundbreaking technology that improves the lives and businesses  of people around the world, and helps to solve challenges in   environmental sustainability, education, and health. Market access Preparing for upcoming legislation, participating in  public policy discussions, preserving our record of legal compliance,  and innovating and collaborating to meet societal needs help us  maintain access to markets. Reputation management Leadership in global citizenship enhances  our reputation with customers, governments, nongovernmental  organizations, investors, and others (see sidebar on page 10). Risk assessment and reduction Focusing on global citizenship  helps us reduce risks to our operations and those of our suppliers  and other business partners.  9 Contents Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Commitment Customers Consumers, enterprises, and government agencies consider compa- nies environmental and social performance when choosing goods  and services. We work hard to understand and meet customers  expectations about HPs programs and progress across a broad range  of global citizenship issues. We also provide products and services   to help them improve their own performance (see Products and   solutions on page 29 and Tech gallery: environment on page 67  for more information).  Consumers HP highlights product features that help consumers reduce their  environmental impact and save money. Many HP products qualify  for eco-labels including ENERGY STAR, EPEAT, Chinas Energy  Conservation Program, Germanys Blue Angel, and Japans   Green Mark. We also engage consumers through the HP Live Green Facebook  page.	This	provides	information	about	our	wide	offering	of	sustain- ability-related products and solutions, programs, and tools. Visitors  can post comments, ask questions, and provide feedback. In 2011,  we launched an HP.com EcoSolutions Store that allows customers  to	find	and	buy	these	products	quickly	and	easily. Enterprise customers HP	offers	tools	and	resources	to	help	enterprise	customers	under- stand and reduce the environmental impact of their information  technology (IT) infrastructure. For example, the HP Sustainable IT  Purchasing Guidance white paper is a vendor-neutral guide to help  enterprise customers develop environmental procurement criteria  for IT products and services. It outlines criteria, including eco-labels,  product attributes, packaging, end-of-use services, and supply chain  responsibility, and includes a sample questionnaire for evaluating   IT vendors. An increasing number of enterprise customers include global   citizenship criteria in their procurement policies, and request   information related to areas such as the environment, ethics,   anti-corruption, and supply chain responsibility. For example,   many requests for proposals (RFPs) that HP receives contain   environment-related questions (see table below).  Government agencies Government policies and programs related to social and environ- mental	priorities	affect	our	ability	to	access	and	compete	in	several	 markets. Public sector buyers worldwide consider criteria in  procurement related to the environment, privacy, supply chain   Customer environmental requirements in requests for proposals, 2007–2011* [percentage]   Product recycling 19% 28% 46% 42% 57%   Eco-labels and declarations 18% 41% 13% 30% 45%   Product design 28% 42% 24% 26% 73%**   Environmental management 24% 34% 20% 39% 43%   Materials use 33% 25% 14% 36% 45%   Supplies 8% 10% 9% 24% 27%   Packaging 3% 8% 8% 22% 18% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007   * 2011 data set has broadened to include reported data for RFPs with environmental questions for all regions (previous data only included HPs Europe, Middle East, and  Africa region). Does not include RFPs for which environmental questions were addressed directly by customers or our sales force. Data is for the calendar year. Inquiries  may have multiple subjects, so categories total more than 100%.  ** The	product	design	category	includes	topics	such	as	energy	efficiency,	chemical	emissions,	and	design	for	recyclability.  10 Contents Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Commitment practices, and other factors. Eco-labels are often a requirement for  doing business with the public sector, and supplier diversity is crit- ical	to	fulfilling	contracts	with	federal	and	many	state	agencies	in	 the United States, and increasingly in Australia and China. Governments are increasingly looking to public-private partnerships  as a way to address critical global challenges. HP considers these  partnerships an important aspect of our global citizenship strategy.  For example, we are working with the Dutch Sustainable Trade  Initiative to improve the social and environmental responsibility  performance of our suppliers in the Pearl River Delta region of China. Investors Socially responsible investors evaluate environmental, social, and  governance	factors	as	well	as	company	financial	performance	when	 making investment decisions. HP is among the top 50 companies  most widely held by socially responsible investor (SRI) funds, and  more than 100 SRI funds hold HP shares.1  We believe that providing information about our global citizenship  performance enables socially responsible investors to make better  decisions regarding their investments in HP.  Analysts	from	SRI	firms	and	other	investment-focused	organiza- tions regularly report on HPs performance (see above). Global citizenship, reputation, and business  outcomes HP conducts research to understand factors that impact our reputa- tion	and	the	effect	those	have	on	a	range	of	business	outcomes.	In	 2011,	we	surveyed	corporate	IT	decision	makers,	consumers,	finan- cial and policy leaders, university researchers, and employees  about their perceptions of HP. Several factors contribute to HPs overall reputation. Of these, the  ones that are related to global citizenship collectively accounted for  about 40% of HPs reputation. These factors include environmental  responsibility, product recycling, governance, data security, supplier  responsibility, employment practices, and community engagement.   In addition to identifying the impact on perception, our research has  also revealed a link between these global citizenship factors and  important business outcomes, such as customers purchase deci- sions, policy leaders decisions that impact HP, and our employee  recruitment and retention. In other words, these factors function  similarly to other well-known business outcome drivers such as  quality and innovation.  The research results underscore the importance of global citizen- ship	to	HPs	business,	and	the	benefits	we	gain	by	managing	global	 citizenship	rigorously	and	communicating	our	progress	effectively. Global citizenship governance Strong global citizenship performance begins at the top and depends  on leadership, participation, and support throughout an organization,  especially for a company as diverse and complex as HP. 1 Ipreo. Organization 2011 ranking or rating Carbon  Disclosure  Project In 2011, HP scored 84 out of 100 for disclo- sure and placed in the B performance  band. HP was included on the S&P 500  Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index.  Dow Jones  Sustainability  Index (DJSI) HP is one of six companies listed as a leader  in the DJSI North America index in the  Computer	Hardware	and	Electronic	Office	 Equipment sector. FTSE4Good HP is included in all four FTSE4Good indices  for the ninth consecutive year.  11 Contents Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Commitment HP Board of Directors Nominating  and Governance Committee The Board of Directors Nominating and Governance Committee  assists	the	board	in	fulfilling	its	responsibilities	related	to	public	 policy, government relations, and global citizenship. The committee  identifies,	evaluates,	and	monitors	social,	political,	and	environ- mental trends and concerns as well as domestic and foreign  legislative proposals and regulatory developments that could signif- icantly	affect	HPs	business.	The	committee	may	also	report	and	 make recommendations to the board relating to activities, policies,  and programs with respect to matters of local, national, and inter- national	public	policy	affecting	HPs	business.	These	may	include: 	Trade policy and major legislative and regulatory developments  	Relations with regulators, governmental agencies, public interest  groups, and other stakeholders  	HPs policies with respect to global citizenship  	General guidelines for political contributions  HP Global Citizenship Council HPs Executive Council retains overall responsibility for global   citizenship as part of our business strategy. Our Global Citizenship  Council helps to ensure commitment and alignment to HPs global  citizenship objectives companywide. The council comprises execu- tives and subject matter experts from across HP, and seeks input  from across our business groups and functions, as well as from  external stakeholders. It meets at least quarterly to strategically  promote and advance global citizenship through integrated risk and  opportunity assessment, governance, and policy oversight. Topic-specific councils HP also maintains separate councils dedicated to areas such as the  environment, supply chain, ethics, and privacy and information  management (see graphic above). These councils include leaders  with relevant expertise from our business units, regions, and func- tions. Each council meets periodically to evaluate our progress in  implementing our strategies, and to establish performance goals. Global Citizenship Council The Global Citizenship Council is sponsored by a member of the   HP Executive Council who reviews progress quarterly. Co-chairs  include the companys vice president of Sustainability and Social  Innovation, and the vice president and chief ethics and compliance  officer.	Other	executives	and	subject	matter	experts	represent	the	 following areas: 	Communications 	Enterprise Risk Management 	Environmental Sustainability 	Ethics and Compliance  	Global Labor Relations 	Global Security Services 	Global Social Innovation 	Government Relations 	Human Rights  	Investor Relations 	Privacy and Information  Management 	Social and Environmental  Sustainability and Compliance Global citizenship governance HP Executive Council Pan-HP Global Citizenship Council HP Foundation Stakeholder engagement Councils, committees, and expert advisors Environmental  sustainability Human rights  and safety  and labor  practices Privacy and  information  management Ethics and  compliance HP Board of Directors Nominating and Governance Committee Assists the board in fullling its responsibilities  related to HP's public policy, government aairs, and global citizenship activities Supply chain  social and  environmental  sustainability  and compliance Social  innovation  12 Contents Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Commitment Stakeholder  engagement Global citizenship attempts to address a broad range of issues, and it is impossible for one  organization to tackle these issues alone. HP pursues long-term, scalable solutions to  major environmental and social challenges through collaboration with our diverse stake- holders.	These	efforts	cross	borders,	industries,	institutions,	and	sectors.	From	these	 relationships and activities, we gain valuable insights into emerging trends, external stan- dards and regulations, and risks and opportunities. These in turn help inform our global  citizenship approach and broader business strategy.  Earning	the	trust	of	our	stakeholders	is	the	first	step	in	building	effective	and	lasting	rela- tionships. We do this by operating responsibly, reporting transparently on our performance,  engaging in open dialogue, and acting with integrity in everything we do.  We engage with the following stakeholder groups: 	Academics 	Customers 	Employees 	Investors 	Legislators and regulators 	Local communities 	Nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) 	Peer companies 	Professional organizations 	Social entrepreneurs 	Suppliers We structure our engagements based on the issue we are addressing. In some cases, such  as	conflict	minerals	(see	sidebar	on	the	following	page),	an	approach	managed	by	a	select	 group	of	experts	from	within	HP	is	most	effective.	Other	issues,	such	as	energy	efficiency	 and climate change, impact HP on many dimensions and so require participation from  people representing a wide range of areas across the company.   13 Contents Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Commitment 2011 highlights   Key examples of stakeholder engagement in 2011 included: 	HP Executive Environmental Advisory Council (EEAC) Comprising  12 prominent business, academic, and NGO thought leaders, the  HP EEAC provides objective environmental counsel to HP leader- ship. This insight helps us better evaluate opportunities, set  priorities, and assess progress in areas such as energy	efficiency,  product reuse and recycling, and supply chain responsibility.  	Advancing low-carbon innovation HP has collaborated with the  Center for Climate and Energy Solutions (C2ES)—formerly the Pew  Center on Global Climate Change—on various research projects to  demonstrate the potential for information technology to help  address climate change, including Business of Innovating: Bringing  Low-Carbon Solutions to Market. Learn more in Collaboration on  page 21. 	The Dutch Sustainable Trade Initiative (IDH) This multi-  stakeholder initiative, aims to accelerate sustainable trade   by building coalitions of leading multinationals, civil society  organizations, governments, and other stakeholders. HP is  helping develop a sustainability plan for electronics manufac- turers located in the Pearl River Delta, China. Learn more in  Collaboration on page 21. 	Center for Information Policy Leadership In 2011, HP continued  to work with the Center for Information Policy Leadership on its  multiyear	project	to	define	what	it	means	for	a	company	to	be	 accountable for its privacy practices. The most recently concluded  phase of the project was sponsored by the Spanish Data Protection  Authority, and described the governance model companies should  adopt to implement accountability in the marketplace.  	Voice of the Workforce survey HPs annual Voice of the Workforce  global survey solicits feedback from employees on issues such as  the working environment at HP, and integrity and ethical practices  at all levels of the company. In 2011, 78% of all employees took  part	in	the	confidential	survey.	Learn	more	in	Engaging our people  on page 121. 	Early Infant Diagnosis project HP and the Clinton Health Access  Initiative are working with the Kenyan government to reduce   the amount of time it takes to diagnose an HIV-positive infant,  allowing patients to be treated sooner. Learn more in Health on  page 151. 	U.S. counterfeit legislation Counterfeiting poses a sizable chal- lenge to HP globally and is more sophisticated and pervasive than  ever before. In 2011, we supported U.S. legislation that allows U.S.  Customs to share information on suspected counterfeit imports  with the rights holder. We also led initiatives around the world to  educate	government	officials	on	the	economic	and	social	implica- tions of allowing counterfeit products into a local marketplace.  Learn more in Public policy on page 158.	Additionally,	HP	offers	 customers products and services with privacy and data protection  features.  See additional examples of engagement related to environmental  issues.  We	affiliate	with	or	belong	to	numerous	membership organizations  focused on a wide range of global citizenship issues, and industry  associations, which seek to share learning and develop sector- wide approaches.  Eliminating conflict minerals HP is engaging with a broad group of stakeholders seeking to elimi- nate the connection between trade in minerals from the Democratic  Republic	of	Congo	(DRC)	and	funding	of	armed	conflict	in	the	region. HP was one of two companies that sent representatives to the DRC  in early 2012 to meet with stakeholders, visit mines, and assess the  situation on the ground. During this investigation, HP representa- tives (along with those of other Public-Private Alliance members)  participated in a series of meetings with local stakeholders. These  included separate meetings with the provincial ministers of mines  of Katanga, Maniema, North Kivu, and South Kivu. We also held  meetings with local civil society in Katanga, North Kivu, and South  Kivu. We visited tantalite and cassiterite mines in Katanga; gold and  cassiterite mines in South Kivu; and wolfram and cassiterite mines  in Rwanda. Additionally, we met with UN organization MONUSCOs*  head of operations in Bukavu to understand the current situation  with armed militias in the Kivu provinces. During 2011, HP played a leading role in developing consensus  comments and recommendations from a multi-stakeholder group  of NGOs and socially responsible investors on this issue. These  comments and recommendations were submitted to, and discussed  with, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. HP also supports the Organization for Economic Cooperation and  Development	(OECD)	due	diligence	guidance	on	conflict	minerals.	 We are participating in a 1-year pilot implementation to test the  guidance, and will provide feedback to the OECD through a series of  three questionnaires and in-person multi-stakeholder meetings.  Learn more in Conflict	minerals	on	page	87.  * MONUSCO is the United Nations Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  14 Contents Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Commitment Perspectives John Elkington Executive Chairman, Volans John sees HP drawing on its rich  history, values, skills, and tech- nologies to create new business  models that help address global  challenges. Visit our online  gallery of external stakeholder  perspectives	to	see	Johns	video. Faris Natour Director, Human Rights, BSR Faris looks to HP to be at the  forefront of businesses devel- oping innovative approaches to  addressing human rights. Visit  our online gallery of external  stakeholder perspectives to see  Fariss video. Throughout this report, we include perspectives from external stakeholders to provide independent insights on various aspects of global  citizenship and HPs performance. These are listed below, with links to the full videos or statements. So Sheung Chief Executive, Labour  Education and Service   Network (LESN) So worked with HP to help  suppliers and schools educate  interns about labor rights, occu- pational health, and other  issues. Read Sos full perspec- tive on page 113. Jackson Hungu CHAI Deputy Country Director,  Kenya Jackson describes HPs approach  to social innovation as a breath  of fresh air, thanks to the  companys technology and its  people. Visit our online gallery of  external stakeholder perspec- tives to see Jacksons video. Eileen Claussen President, Center for Climate  and Energy Solutions (C2ES)  Eileen describes how technolo- gies such as HPs Managed Print  Services make business sense  while	also	benefiting	the	planet.	 Visit our online gallery of exter- nal stakeholder perspectives to   see Eileens video. Mark Kenber CEO, The Climate Group Mark thinks advances in infor- mation and communications  technology led by companies  such as HP can transform how we  live and do business. Visit our  online gallery of external stake- holder perspectives to see  Marks video.  15 Contents Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Commitment Affiliations and  memberships HP	belongs	to	or	affiliates	with	many	organizations	that	address	 global citizenship issues, including: Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, the premier forum for facili- tating economic growth, cooperation, trade, and investment in the  Asia-Pacific	region BSR,	a	global	nonprofit	organization	that	helps	member	companies	 enhance business performance while respecting ethical values,  people, communities, and the environment Center for Climate and Energy Solutions, an independent, nonpar- tisan,	nonprofit	organization	working	to	advance	strong	policy	and	 action to address the twin challenges of energy and climate change  Center for Corporate Citizenship at Boston College, a member- ship-based research organization associated with the Carroll School  of Management, which is committed to helping businesses leverage  their social, economic, and human assets to ensure both their  success and a more just and sustainable world The Centre for Information Policy Leadership, an organization  that develops initiatives that encourage responsible information  governance necessary for the continued growth of the information  economy Change the Equation, an organization that pledges to create wide- spread literacy in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM)  as an investment in our nation that empowers us all The Climate Group,	an	independent,	not-for-profit	organization	 working internationally with government and business leaders to  advance smart policies and technologies to cut global emissions  and accelerate a clean industrial revolution  Climate Savers Computing Initiative (CSCI),	a	nonprofit	organiza- tion committed to reducing carbon dioxide emissions through the  development, deployment, and adoption of smart technologies to  improve	efficiency	and	reduce	the	amount	of	energy	a	computer	 consumes Clinton Global Initiative (CGI), which convenes global leaders to  devise and implement innovative solutions to some of the worlds  most	pressing	challenges—maximizing	their	efforts	to	alleviate	 poverty, create a cleaner environment, and increase access to  healthcare and education Clinton Health Access Initiative, a global health organization  committed to strengthening integrated health systems in the  developing world and expanding access to care and treatment for  HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis Combat Climate Change (3C), a business leaders initiative to support  the negotiation process led by the United Nations Framework  Convention on Climate Change to establish a new global agreement Corporate Eco Forum, a membership organization for large compa- nies that demonstrate a serious commitment to environment as a  business strategy issue, helping accelerate sustainable business  innovation and the exchange of best-practice insights CSR Asia, which builds capacity in companies and their supply  chains to promote awareness of corporate social responsibility in  order to advance sustainable development across the region CSR Europe, a business membership network that promotes the  business case for corporate social responsibility across the region  and globally  16 Contents Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Commitment Dutch Sustainable Trade Initiative, a multi-sector process that  aims to improve the sustainability of international supply chains Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition, a coalition of the worlds  leading	electronics	companies	working	together	to	improve	effi- ciency and social, ethical, and environmental responsibility in the  global supply chain  EPEAT, a leading global registry that helps identify greener  computers and other electronic equipment Ethics and Compliance Officer Association (ECOA),	a	nonprofit,	 member-driven association exclusively for individuals who are  responsible for their organizations ethics, compliance, and busi- ness conduct programs Ethos Institute for Business and Social Responsibility, a Brazilian  nonprofit	organization	with	a	mission	to	mobilize,	encourage,	and	 help companies manage their business in a socially responsible way European Academy of Business in Society (EABIS), a network of  companies and business schools committed to putting business in  society issues at the heart of management practice European e-Skills Association, an organization representing the  information and communications technology sectors contribution  to the development and implementation of a long-term e-skills and  digital literacy agenda in Europe European Recycling Platform (ERP),	the	first	ever	pan-European	 take-back	scheme	to	effectively	implement	the	European	Unions	 Waste Electronic and Electrical Equipment (WEEE) Directive Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), an independent, nongovern- mental,	not-for-profit	organization	established	to	promote	the	 responsible management of the worlds forests  Global Business Initiative on Human Rights (GBI), an initiative led  by major global corporations to support action-learning activities  that promote the implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on  Business and Human Rights Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), an independent,  nonprofit	association	that	fosters	global	and	open	cooperation,	 informs the public of its members voluntary actions to improve  their sustainability performance, and promotes technologies that  advance sustainable development Global Forest Trade Network (GFTN), the World Wildlife Funds  (WWFs) initiative to eliminate illegal logging, improve the manage- ment of valuable and threatened forests, and create a new market  for environmentally responsible forest products Global Social Compliance Programme, a business-driven program  for the continuous improvement of working and environmental  conditions in global supply chains The Green Grid Association,	a	nonprofit,	open	industry	consortium	 of global IT companies, policy makers, and end users seeking to  improve	energy	efficiency	in	data	centers	and	unite	industry	efforts	 to develop a common set of metrics, processes, and new  technologies International Climate Change Partnership (ICCP), a global  membership-based coalition of companies and trade associations  committed to constructive and responsible participation in the  international policy process concerning global climate change Junior Achievement, the worlds largest organization dedicated to  educating students about workforce readiness, entrepreneurship,  and	financial	literacy	through	experiential,	hands-on	programs National Association for Environmental Management (NAEM),   a	nonprofit,	nonpartisan	professional	association	dedicated	to	 educating corporate environmental, health and safety, and  sustainability decision makers Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade, a joint  initiative between governments, companies, and civil society to  support	supply	chain	solutions	to	conflict	minerals	challenges	in	  the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and the Great Lakes Region  (GLR) of Central Africa The Sustainability Consortium, an independent organization of  diverse global stakeholders who work collaboratively to build a  scientific	foundation	that	drives	innovation	and	improves	the	 sustainability of consumer products throughout all stages of their  life cycle Sustainable Silicon Valley, an organization leading Silicon Valley   to a more sustainable future through collaboration with local  government agencies, businesses, and community organizations   to identify and address the highest-priority environmental issues  United Nations Global Compact, a voluntary and strategic policy  initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their opera- tions and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the  areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption U.S. Green Building Council,	a	nonprofit	organization	committed	to	 a	prosperous	and	sustainable	future	through	cost-efficient	and	 energy-saving	green	buildings,	including	LEED	certification	for	 data centers World Economic Forum,	an	independent,	nonprofit	foundation	 committed to improving the state of the world by engaging soci- etal leaders in partnerships to shape global, regional, and  industry agendas World Resources Forum, a science-based platform to exchange  knowledge about the economic, political and environmental impli- cations of global resource use WWF Climate Savers, the World Wildlife Funds (WWFs) initiative to  mobilize multinational companies to voluntarily reduce greenhouse  gas	emissions	and	promote	the	business	case	for	energy	efficiency	 and clean technology  17 Contents Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Commitment Policies Accessibility 	HP Accessibility Policy Business ethics 	HP Standards of Business Conduct Corporate governance 	Corporate Governance Guidelines Diversity 	HP Nondiscrimination Policy 	HP Harassment-Free Work Environment Policy Environment 	Environmental, Health, and Safety Policy 	Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy 	Hardware Recycling Standards 	Printing Supplies Recycling Policy Global citizenship 	HP Global Citizenship Policy Human rights 	HP Global Human Rights Policy Labor practices 	HP Best Work Environment Policy	Defines	the	standards	of	 personal conduct that we expect employees to meet to contribute  to a positive, productive work environment. 	HP Open Door Policy HPs open door policy commits us to create a  workplace where everyones voice is heard, issues are promptly  raised	and	resolved,	and	communication	flows	across	all	levels	of	 the company. Privacy 	HP Global Master Privacy Policy Products 	HP	General	Specification	for	the	Environment Supply chain 	HP Supply Chain Social and Environmental Responsibility Policy 	HP Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct  Environment 19  Environmental sustainability 29  Products and solutions 47  Product reuse and recycling 52  HP operations 67  Tech gallery: environment 69  Data dashboard: environment 75  Goals: environment At HP, we strive to improve the environmental performance of our  customers, our supply chain, and our own operations. Through   Positive Impact—HPs drive to help conserve more than we as a  company consume—we give people the tools and solutions to build a  better today while preparing to address the challenges of tomorrow.   19 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Environmental  sustainability In 2011, the global population passed 7 billion on its way to a projected 9.3 billion by  2050—a rise thats creating many challenges.1 None may be more critical than balancing  the demands of economic growth with the need for long-term environmental sustainability.  As more people strive for greater prosperity, were facing increasing pressure to do more  with	finite	resources. As the worlds largest provider of information technology (IT) infrastructure, software,  services, and solutions, HP is in a unique position to respond to this challenge. We see  unprecedented opportunities to transform the way the world lives and works—while  advancing our business and helping our customers thrive. Aiming for Positive Impact Positive Impact is HPs drive to help conserve more than we as a company consume. We are  applying our scale, portfolio, and partnerships both to reduce our own environmental  impact	and	to	help	customers	be	more	efficient	and	adopt	more	sustainable	processes	 and behaviors. We are taking a two-pronged approach toward Positive Impact. First, were improving the  efficiency	of	our	portfolio, supply chain, and operations. Information and communications  technology accounts for approximately 2% of the worlds greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions,  a share thats expected to climb with population growth and expanding use of technology.2  By using less energy and other resources, HP and our industry can help keep these emis- sions in check, as well as save money, spark innovation, lower reputational risk, and open  up new markets.  However, we see an even bigger opportunity in using technology to reduce the other 98% of  GHG emissions. Developing HP solutions that improve or replace current energy- and  resource-intensive	processes	and	behaviors	with	more	efficient	alternatives	is	core	to	our	 aspiration for Positive Impact.  Highlights 20% Reduction in GHG emissions from operations between  2005 and 2011, meeting our 2013 goal 2 years early. 50% Reduction in energy consumption of our products by the  end of 2011 compared with 2005 levels—exceeding our  original goal of a 40% reduction.* 33% The recycled plastic used in Original HP ink cartridges  has up to a 33% smaller carbon footprint than the virgin  plastic used in Original HP ink cartridges.** * The average energy consumption of HP products is estimated  using high-volume product lines representative of the overall  shipped product volume. Energy consumption has been  estimated in 2005 and annually since. The high-volume product  lines include notebook and desktop computers, inkjet and  LaserJet printers, and industry-standard servers. ** For cartridges produced in 2010 and beyond. Based on a  2010 life cycle assessment (LCA) performed by Four Elements  Consulting and commissioned by HP. The study compared the  environmental impact of using polyethylene terephthalate  (PET) plastic with the environmental impact of using recycled  PET to manufacture new Original HP ink cartridges. For details,  see www.hp.com/go/RecycledPlasticsLCA. 1 Total Midyear Population for the World: 1950–2050, U.S. Census Bureau, International Data Base. Accessed February 4, 2011,  www.census.gov/ipc/www/idb/worldpop.php. 2 SMART 2020: Enabling the low carbon economy in the information age, page 17, 2008, www.smart2020.org/_assets/files/  02_Smart2020Report.pdf.  20 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Continuous innovation and collaboration with our customers and  partners is central to how we develop and apply these solutions. Its  also vital to how we advance responsible practices and standards  across our global operations and supply chain as our business grows. Helping customers do more while using less  We are pioneering solutions that either improve on existing tech- nologies	or	replace	them	with	more	efficient	alternatives,	such	as	 enterprise energy and resource management, sustainable data  center projects, cloud infrastructure and services such as MagCloud,  and other cloud computing solutions. Used	effectively,	technology	can	ultimately	contribute	to	a	net	posi- tive impact in the consumption of resources and energy. A 2011 life  cycle assessment (LCA) issued by HP on digital	vs.	offset	book  publishing	offers	a	prime	example.	Compared	with	offset-only	 printing, digital print technology makes it easier to better align  printing with demand and helps to reduce the book-return rate.3  This could reduce the potential environmental impact of producing  and selling paperback bestsellers by 17% in carbon dioxide equiva- lent (CO2e). See the sidebar for more information about HP digital  printing solutions.  Another	example	is	HP	Visual	Collaboration—a	high-definition,	 immersive, videoconferencing solution that was divested to  Polycom, Inc. in 2011. As part of this agreement, the two compa- nies are working together on solutions to provide customers with  Polycom RealPresence video solutions and software infrastruc- ture deployed on HP networking and systems.4 Over the 3 years  prior to divestiture, Visual Collaboration helped HP and its  customers reduce about 175,000 tonnes in CO2e emissions— comparable	to	eliminating	more	than	143,000	round-trip	flights	 between New York and London.5  As we aim for Positive Impact, we are delivering solutions to  address key areas such as energy consumption while investing in  sustainable technology research and development that help  customers improve their lives or businesses and reduce their envi- ronmental footprint.  Reducing the environmental impact of the   IT supply chain We embrace the challenge of improving environmental sustainability  throughout our global supply chain. HP is an industry leader in  helping our product manufacturing, transport, and recovery partners  understand, improve, and report on their environmental perfor- mance. Through collaboration with our partners, as well as industry  and environmental leaders, we can further reduce our extended  environmental impact.  We continue to expand our reuse and recycling programs to  improve availability, reduce waste resulting from the operations,  and capture value from IT products at end of life. For example, we  have used the plastic of more than 1.8 billion recycled plastic  bottles and plastic from recycled HP ink cartridges to create over   1 billion new Original HP ink cartridges with our closed loop  cartridge recycling process. By recycling these plastic bottles, we  have	diverted	24,000	tonnes	of	waste	from	landfills	and	reduced	 GHG emissions equivalent to 17,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2). Addressing our own environmental footprint Responsibly managing our own operations is a cornerstone of our  commitment to environmental sustainability. Across our global  operations, we continually work to reduce energy consumption,  GHG emissions, paper use, water consumption, and waste. In 2011,  3 When	printing	500,000	copies	of	a	240-page	mono	color	paperback	book,	duplexed	with	5%	coverage.	First	450,000	copies	printing	using	the	Timson	Offset	Press,	with	supplemental	short	runs	of	1,000	copies	 using	the	Digital	T200	press.	This	assumes	book	return	rate	of	25%	for	offset	printing,	5%	for	digital	printing. 4 Polycom is an exclusive partner for certain video collaboration solutions for HPs internal use and resale to its broad customer base, which is further helping to reduce travel and emissions. 5 For	air	travel	avoidance,	an	average	of	1,609	miles	each	way	per	round-trip	(average	of	short-,	medium-,	and	long-haul	flights	at	HP),	and	a	weighted	average	CO2 footprint per mile of 199g CO2e is used. Car travel  to/from airport on both ends is also considered. Of the 35% of meetings that avoid travel, only 1.4 persons are assumed to avoid travel in each meeting. Usage depends on a companys travel and meeting policies. Improving data center energy efficiency Many	data	centers	are	inefficient,	estimated	to	use	less	than	half	of	 the overall energy they consume for computing. Were reimagining  those models from the ground up. Were helping customers forgo  brick-and-mortar data centers with the HP POD 240a modular data  center, also known as the HP EcoPOD, which uses 95% less facilities  energy. Were helping customers monitor and manage energy use in  real time with the HP Data Center Smart Grid. Through HP Project  Moonshot, were designing next-generation, extreme-low-energy  server technologies. And HP Labs sustainable data center project is  a large-scale rethinking of how data centers are designed, built, and  operated. In pilot tests, HP Labs is using local micro-grids of renew- able energy to reduce a data centers reliance on grid power. HP  expects to reduce reliance on the grid by more than 75% while  significantly	lowering	operational	costs. Embracing digital printing Shifting to digital printing allows people and businesses to print only  what they need, when they need it, helping to reduce unwanted  prints and wasted paper. HP estimates that minimizing overruns of  books, magazines, and newspapers through digital printing could  reduce emissions by 114 to 251 million tonnes of CO2e each year.*  Were also developing printing technology innovations that consume  fewer resources other than energy and paper. HP Photosmart  Minilab printers eliminate up to 2,484 liters of wastewater per year,  compared with silver halide photo systems tested.**  * Reducing the Greenhouse Gas Emissions of Commercial Print with Digital Technologies, 2009, page 2.  ** Based on a 2010 LCA performed by Four Elements Consulting and commissioned by HP. The study  compared the impact of using HP ML1000D, HP ML2000D, and HP Microlab pm2000e printers with  the impact of using Fuji Frontier 350 and Noritsu QSS-3212 printers to produce 375,000 4 x 6-inch  photos a year in Europe.  21 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment GHG emissions from our operations (not including travel) equaled a  20% reduction from our 2005 baseline, meeting our goal 2 years  early (learn more in Energy and GHG emissions on page 53).  Additionally,	we	completed	energy-efficiency	initiatives	at	our	 client-serving (or trade) data centers that we project will save  approximately 13 million kilowatt hours (kWh) and avoid an esti- mated 7,200 tonnes of CO2e emissions on an annual basis. Thats  the equivalent of removing 1,758 passenger vehicles from the road  for 1 year.6  Easing demand on freshwater sources Since 2007, HPs facilities in Singapore have been using New  Water to reduce demand on freshwater. New Water is treated  wastewater	that	is	purified	using	microfiltration,	reverse	osmosis,	 and ultraviolet treatment, as well as conventional treatment  processes. The water is potable but is mostly used by industries  requiring high-purity water. New Water accounts for more than  two-thirds of the facilities annual water consumption and is 20%  cheaper than standard potable water, helping us to save more than  $3.5 million USD since 2007. In 2011, HP ranked in the top-scoring 10% of S&P 500 companies   by the Carbon Disclosure Project and was listed on their Carbon  Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). To learn more, read the   CDLI report. Eileen Claussen President, Center for Climate  and Energy Solutions (C2ES)  Eileen describes how technolo- gies such as HPs Managed Print  Services make business sense  while	also	benefiting	the	planet.	 Visit our online gallery of  external stakeholder perspec- tives to see Eileens video. Collaboration Collaboration is essential to developing shared solutions for  complex environmental challenges. HP works regularly with  governments, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and other  technology companies to understand the environmental issues  involved, address the needs and concerns of stakeholders, search  for	effective	solutions,	and	enact	policies	and	practices	that	require	 a collective approach to work on a large scale. Through these  efforts,	we	focus	on	such	goals	as	improving	resource	efficiency,	 continually advancing standards for product development, and  addressing the causes of climate change. HP Executive Environmental  Advisory Council  In 2010, we established the HP Executive Environmental Advisory  Council (EEAC) to provide objective environmental counsel to HP  leadership. The EEACs insights help us better evaluate opportunities,  set priorities, and assess progress in such areas as energy	efficiency,  product reuse and recycling, and supply chain responsibility.  The EEAC provides a forum to: 	Solicit expert feedback to inform HPs environmental strategies. 	Deepen HPs understanding of major environmental trends. 	Offer	thought	leaders	a	preview	of	HPs	sustainability-focused	 research and innovation. 	Help HP to expand and evolve environmental programs. In 2011, the EEAC recommended that HP more broadly integrate  sustainability criteria into its procurement policies for nonproduc- tion spend. One example of HPs commitment in this vein is our  commitment to undertake more sustainable procurement in our U.S.  auto	fleet.	Through	the	Clinton	Global	Initiatives	Fleets	for	Change,	 weve agreed to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our  U.S.	fleet	by	10%	by	2015,	compared	with	2010	on	a	per	unit	basis.	 (Learn more about HPs involvement with Fleets for Change.)   The council also recommended that HP share its environmental  leadership more proactively. Our 2011 outreach included such  communications programs as the HP Unlocking Your Energy tour.  6 U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator. For details, see www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-resources/calculator.html.  22 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment The council consists of 12 prominent business, academic, and NGO  thought leaders. At the end of 2011, EEAC members included:  	Eric Brewer, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer  Sciences, University of California, Berkeley, and Vice President of  Engineering, Google 	Aron Cramer, President and CEO, BSR 	Amol	Deshpande,	Partner,	Kleiner	Perkins	Caufield	&	Byers	 	Ann Hand, CEO, Project Frog 	Steven Kline, Vice President, Corporate Environmental and Federal  Affairs,	and	Chief	Sustainability	Officer,	PG&E	Corporation 	Peter Lehner, Executive Director, Natural Resources Defense  Council 	Joel Makower, Chairman and Executive Editor, GreenBiz Group Inc. 	Dan Reicher, Executive Director, Steyer-Taylor Center for Energy  Policy and Finance, Stanford University 	Steve Westly, Managing Partner, The Westly Group 	Scott	Wicker,	Chief	Sustainability	Officer,	UPS 	Andrew Winston, Author and Founder, Winston Eco-Strategies 	David Yarnold, President and CEO, Audubon Collaborating on low-carbon best  practices and solutions HP believes governments, businesses, and other organizations  must meet the challenges of climate change with ingenuity. In  2011, HP signed the 2C Challenge Communiqu, demonstrating  our commitment to global action on climate change, sustainable  development, forest conservation, and building a green economy.  Signed by hundreds of corporate leaders worldwide, the commu- niqu calls for international government action to stabilize global  average surface temperatures at a maximum 2C above preindus- trial levels.  Additional examples of our collaborations in 2011 include: Center for Climate and Energy Solutions HP provided funding to the Center for Climate and Energy  Solutions (C2ES)—formerly the Pew Center on Global Climate  Change—to launch Business of Innovating: Bringing Low-Carbon  Solutions to Market. Released in October 2011, the study docu- ments the challenges and best practices of companies dedicated   to addressing climate change. HP was one of four multinational  companies featured in detailed case studies. The report focused   on two low-carbon HP innovations in particular: HP Visual  Collaboration videoconferencing1 and Managed Print Services  (MPS). Read more about our energy and climate strategy. World Wildlife Fund (WWF) In 2011, HP Canada expanded its collaboration with WWF Canada  by	providing	financial,	technical,	and	consulting	expertise	for	WWFs	 Living Planet @ Work. Launched in late October, the program  provides free resources to businesses to help engage employees in  green initiatives. The program included close to 100 business  members by the end of 2011. Learn more about the relationship  between HP Canada and WWF Canada. HP is also a member of WWFs Global Forest and Trade Network  (GFTN), which aims to expand the market for environmentally  responsible forest products. HP signed the GFTNs Corporate Tiger  Declaration in early 2011. Corporate signatories agree to reduce  their impact on global tiger habitats through the responsible  procurement of wood and paper.  Forest Stewardship Council In	2011,	HP	became	an	official	member	of	the	Forest Stewardship  Council (FSC), an independent NGO and certifying body that  promotes responsible management of the worlds forests. In 2009,   we set a goal that 40% or more of HP-branded paper sold would be  FSC	certified	or	have	more	than	30%	postconsumer	waste	content	by	 the end of 2011. We met our goal this year, and established a new  goal for 2015. Read more about our paper policy and practices.  Other collaborative efforts To advance environmental sustainability, HP engaged in several  other collaborative relationships in 2011, including the following:  	Participating in The Sustainability Consortium (TSC) to develop a  consistent, transparent methodology for sharing information on  the sustainability of notebooks, desktops, monitors, and televi- sions based on a life cycle approach. HP is also working with the  TSC Paper Working Group to develop environmental assessment  tools for paper. 	Developing a transparent, objective product carbon footprint (PCF)  methodology for notebooks, desktops, and monitors in collabora- tion with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), NGOs, and  other original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). See Life cycle  assessment on page 31 for more information on our PCF research. 	Contributing to the development of the EPEAT standard for  imaging and printing products in collaboration with other tech- nology stakeholders and the Green Electronics Council. 	Working with other stakeholders, the U.S. Environmental  Protection Agency, and the U.S. Department of Energy to revise  the ENERGY STAR standard for both printers and computer   servers, and to develop a new ENERGY STAR standard for data  center storage.  	Working with the U.S. Green Building Council on new LEED   standards for data centers and with the Green Grid Association   (as a board member) on new data center protocols.   1 HP divested its HP Visual Collaboration business to Polycom, Inc., in July 2011.  23 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment 	Contributing to the development of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol  Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard. 	Collaborating with the NGO Camara to support the East African  Computer Recycling (EACR) facility in Mombasa, Kenya, which  processes end-of-life electronics equipment while creating  employment in disadvantaged communities.  	Partnering with the Canada-based Lavergne Group to support   a new HP plastic treatment facility in Vietnam, expanding the  closed loop HP ink cartridge recycling program. Read more  about our work with recycling vendors in developing countries. Learn more about how HPs approach to stakeholder engagement  helps us address a broad range of environmental and social  challenges. Employee engagement Around the world, HP creates opportunities for employees to learn  about,	demonstrate,	and	share	environmental	practices	that	benefit	 their professional and personal lives. The HP Sustainability Network  is the centerpiece of our approach and, with thousands of  members, is among the largest employee network groups at HP.  The network expanded from 29 chapters in 2010 to 36 in 2011.  Located in 13 countries, the chapters coordinate a wide range of  efforts	including	several	alternative commute programs, local  volunteering	efforts,	on-site	composting,	educational	workshops,	 and local site events for World Environment Day and Earth Day.  During 2011, 17 sites around the world ran World Environment Day  or Earth Day events that were attended by thousands of employees.  In 2011, the network set up a global steering committee to improve  effectiveness	and	manage	growth,	increase	stakeholder	support	 and	communications,	and	offer	activities	to	more	individuals	in	 more countries. The committee coordinates with HPs Sustainability  and Social Innovation team to ensure alignment. During the year, the network encouraged the growth of employee-led  horticultural users groups (HUGs) worldwide. HUGs foster activities  such as seed exchanges, tree planting in local communities, classes  on how to eat locally, and lessons on how to work with local farmers  markets. Six sites—in Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom, and  the United States—have employee vegetable gardens. We have other initiatives as well to encourage employees to engage  on environmental issues. In 2011, we combined HP Canadas Green  Advocates program with the Eco Solutions Advocate program in the  United States. This created the HP Eco Advocate program, which  helps employees communicate the companys environmental initia- tives to customers and the community. Through the initiative, we  trained more than 1,300 HP employees on environmental topics.   In 2012, we plan to expand the Eco Advocate program into other  regions and are incorporating elements into our sales training. HP employees making an impact:   Frances Edmonds Frances Edmonds, director of environmental programs for HP  Canada, supports World Wildlife Fund (WWF) in helping other busi- nesses become more sustainable. Learn more about Frances  Edmonds on page 137. Phillip Kong Phillip Kong brings his passion for environmental sustainability   to both his job as a Green Practice Consulting Manager for HP  Enterprise Services, and as the global lead for the HP Sustainability  Network. Learn more about Phillip Kong on page 141. The Eco Advocate program has enabled  me to channel my passion for all things  green into creating a business advantage  for HP. I know my customers look to me  for expertise in this area, and the program  helps me to provide that knowledge. —Hilde Allman, Technology and Business Process Consultant,  Printing and Personal Systems, HP Canada The	knowledge	and	confidence	the	  Eco Advocate program fosters is  awesome. It has allowed me to educate   my customer base—and has helped our  procurement	and	IT	staff	to	win	deals.	 —Adam Hughes, Commercial Account Manager, Printing and  Personal Systems, HP Canada  24 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Energy and climate The opportunity Energy drives the global economy and nearly every aspect of  modern life. With consumption forecast to rise nearly 50% by 2035,1  the	world	needs	solutions	that	improve	efficiency	to	keep	pace	with	 demand—as well as reduce emissions that fuel climate change. Investing	in	energy	efficiency	is	sound	business	strategy	as	well.	 According to McKinsey & Co., the average internal rate of return on  energy	efficiency	projects	is	17%,	which	could	yield	energy	savings	 up to $900 billion USD annually by 2020 in the United States alone.2  At HP, we believe this represents an enormous opportunity to  deliver	energy-efficient	information	technology	(IT)	infrastructure,	 and to innovate IT solutions that provide people and businesses  with better insight into and control over their energy use. Energy	efficiency	also	helps	mitigate	climate	change.	According	to	 The Climate Group, information and communications technologies  (ICT) could save 7.8 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent  (CO2e) in 2020, representing 15% of global emissions. We believe  enabling customers to better understand and improve their energy  use can reduce costs, but also help them make better choices.  Thanks to smart meters, energy management systems, and other  emerging technologies, the data to guide those decisions is increas- ingly available.  Using IT to improve energy-efficiency At the same time, the rapidly growing volume of energy consump- tion data is challenging to manage and use. As the worlds largest  provider of IT infrastructure, software, services, and solutions to  individuals and organizations of all sizes, HP is in a unique position  to help customers turn energy-consumption data into usable infor- mation,	enabling	them	to	develop	more	efficient	and	productive	 operations that use less energy and reduce associated greenhouse  gas (GHG) emissions.  For example, HP Energy and Sustainability Management (ESM) is  designed to help enterprise customers measure and manage  energy use and other resources across their facilities, IT, supply  chain, and workforce. And for individual users, HP Power Assistant  makes it easy to monitor and reduce PC energy consumption, oper- ating costs, and CO2e	impact,	without	affecting	productivity.	 We also focus on the supply side of the equation. Utilities are chal- lenged to manage and make sense of the vast amount of the data  generated by a proliferation of smart meters, which gather and  communicate data on energy use in virtually real time. Improving  their	operations	and	better	serving	customers	hinges	on	effectively	 capturing, storing, analyzing, and acting on that data.  HP Smart Grid Solutions enable utilities and other partners to  design	and	deploy	dynamic	pricing	programs	and	energy-efficiency,	 conservation, and demand-response programs. With operational  improvements, utilities can limit outages and develop business  plans that can defer the build out of new generation and transmis- sion infrastructure.  Energy-efficient IT In addition to developing solutions that better measure and manage  energy	use,	HP	is	committed	to	improving	energy	efficiency	across	 our portfolio of products, from desktop PCs and printers to data  centers. In fact, HPs product portfolio is on average 50% more  energy	efficient	today	than	it	was	in	2005. Were	also	delivering	solutions	that	replace	inefficient	technologies	 with more productive and sustainable alternatives. For example,   HP thin clients enable computing on a virtual desktop residing   on a central server. Users access the virtual environment through   a	simple	and	efficient	desktop	device	that	contains	no	hard	drives	  or other moving parts, relying on the server for all computing  resources. Replacing 2,000 desktop PCs and monitors made in 2005  with the same number of HP thin client solutions—including the  required servers—would cut energy consumption by 74% and save  an estimated 795,000 kilowatt hours (kWh) per year.3 1 www.eia.doe.gov/oiaf/ieo/index.html. 2 www.mckinsey.com/Insights/MGI/Research/Natural_Resources/The_case_for_investing_in_energy_productivity. 3 The technology refresh takes 2005 desktops and monitors in an enterprise setting and replaces them 1:1 with HP t5570 Thin Clients and new HP Compaq LE19 WLED monitors. In the background, a set of HP  DL460cG7 blade servers and a rack of storage disks support the new thin clients (about 70 thin clients to one blade server). Mark Kenber CEO, The Climate Group Mark thinks advances in infor- mation and communications  technology led by companies  such as HP can transform how  we live and do business. Visit  our online gallery of external   stakeholder perspectives to see  Marks video.  25 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Energy and the data center As demand for computing resources increases, companies are  relying more heavily on data centers, increasing energy use.  According to the 2011 Data Center Industry Census, the worlds  data centers will consume 19% more energy in 2012 than in 2011.  Total power use will reach about 31 gigawatts, equivalent to the  energy used by all the residential households in France, Italy, or the  United Kingdom.4  To help slow this trend, HP is helping customers rethink the data  center from design through operational management. HP Critical  Facilities Services (CFS) provides consulting, design, and engineering  services	for	new	or	retrofitted	data	centers.	Our	approach	helps	 align	IT,	facilities,	and	operations	with	data-center	capacity	and	flex- ibility to meet business needs and manage environmental impact.  One challenge is that traditional data centers can be over provi- sioned and under used, resulting in wasted energy and money.  Virtualization	offers	one	solution.	By	consolidating	many	servers	 into a single machine, virtualization can dramatically reduce the  energy demands of a data center while increasing its capacity and  performance. Another solution is modular design, which helps  enterprises	rapidly	and	efficiently	expand	data-center	capacity.	One	 example is the HP POD 240a, also referred to as the HP EcoPOD—  a	compact,	self-contained,	modular,	ultraefficient	data	center.	 The availability of usable performance data is also key to saving  energy. The HP Data Center Smart Grid creates an intelligent,  energy-aware data center using interconnected sensors that detect  when power is being wasted, allowing IT managers to make adjust- ments in real time. This powerful management tool can reduce a  facilitys power and cooling costs by up to 30%. HP	is	also	developing	data	centers	based	on	a	more	efficient	  cloud-based infrastructure. This enables servers to use and share  resources	more	efficiently,	getting	more	work	out	of	each	kWh	used.	 Looking to the future, the sustainable data center project is a large- scale rethinking of how data centers are designed, built, and  operated. Managed by HP Labs, the companys central research  arm, the aim is to develop a facility that consumes net-zero energy  from nonrenewable sources over its entire life cycle—from  resource extraction and manufacturing to operation and end of life.  This means moving away from sources like the public power grid  and	relying	on	local	microgrids	of	renewable	energy	to	offset	all	or	 most of a data centers energy needs. HP Labs has also created an  IT infrastructure that dynamically allocates resources to shape  demand, so the data center receives the resources it needs when it  needs them—and no more. In pilot tests, HP Labs is using local  microgrids of renewable energy to reduce a data centers reliance  on grid power. HP expects to reduce reliance on the grid by more  than	75%	while	significantly	lowering	operational	costs—contrary	 to the view that sustainability requires companies to pay more to  be green. This shift to renewable energy microgrids can reduce a  data centers carbon footprint by an equivalent 75%. HP technology, services, and solutions can help transform how  the world lives and works. We make it possible for customers to  grow responsibly and to be more productive while being conscious  of	the	environment	and	efficient	with	resources.	For	HP,	this	align- ment	of	business	and	environmental	benefits	is	core	to	creating	a	 Positive Impact, HPs drive to help conserve more than we as a  company consume. HP employees making an impact:   Sundeep Khisty As the lead for HP Carbon Emissions Management Service, Sundeep  Khisty shows enterprise clients how to measure and reduce their  carbon footprints. Learn more about Sundeep Khisty on page 140.  Energy and GHG emissions across  HPs business Were	committed	to	making	our	global	operations	more	energy	effi- cient, seeking low-carbon energy sources where possible. In 2011,  we implemented a software platform from Hara, a provider of energy  and sustainability management software, to automate energy and  sustainability data collection across 770 HP sites worldwide. Learn  more in Energy	efficiency	on	page	55.  HP ESM group is also involved in this global implementation. The  ESM group will apply the insights and best practices they gain to  benefit	other	customers	undertaking	similar	deployments.	 HP works to manage and decrease energy use and GHG emissions  throughout our business (see table below). From manufacturing  and operations to product transport, use, and recycling, HP recog- nizes the importance of environmental sustainability in our  products, services, and practices. 4 2011 Data Center Industry Census, DataCenterDynamics.  26 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Working with others  We collaborate with government agencies, nongovernmental  organizations (NGOs), universities, and peer technology compa- nies to improve our own performance, develop standards to  advance the industry, and contribute to advanced research in  energy and sustainability.  HP supports international action to address climate change and  minimize the risks of serious environmental, economic, and social  impact.	Because	we	believe	that	energy-efficient	HP	technology	can	 be a catalyst in meeting the challenge of climate change, we again  participated in the United Nations Climate Change Conference   (COP 17). For the second consecutive year, HP was selected as the  primary provider of low-carbon IT solutions for the conference.  HP	is	an	official	signatory	of	The 2C Challenge Communiqu, a state- ment from more than 400 international businesses that calls on  governments to take action at a national level to ensure a successful  transition to green growth and a climate-resilient economy. HP Unlocking Your Energy In 2011 we hosted a series of HP Unlocking Your Energy events   to showcase innovative HP products, services, and solutions that  help consumers, enterprises, and entire industries reduce their  energy consumption, cut carbon emissions, save money, and   boost productivity. Academics, NGO leaders, industry analysts, journalists, and sustain- ability experts attended the events, providing a forum for new  thinking and dialogue on the opportunities for IT to reduce energy  use and advance sustainability. Learn more about the HP Unlocking Your Energy event in London. GHG emissions across HPs business, 2011* Category 2011 emissions   [tonnes CO2e] Level of influence** Our actions Product   manufacturing 4,800,000***  Medium  We work with our direct suppliers to report and reduce  their energy use.  HP operations 1,856,400 High  In managing our facilities and data centers, we strive  to reduce energy consumption and purchase energy  from renewable sources. HP employee   business travel 461,600 High  Our travel policies and use of online virtual meetings  and videoconferencing decrease business travel.  Product transport 1,900,000 Medium  We enhance distribution networks and convert to  lower-energy transport modes where appropriate.  Improved packaging reduces waste and weight, saving  shipping fuel and cutting GHG emissions.  Product use Based on customer energy use  of sold products, approximately  an order of magnitude more  than emissions from HP  operations  Medium  We design products, software, and services that help  customers use less energy. Product recycling  (CO2e avoided) 250,000**** Medium  We	offer	customers	a	range	of	reuse	and	recycling	 services, resulting in reduced GHG emissions.   * Includes direct measurements as well as estimates.  ** Refers	to	the	level	of	influence	HP	has	on	this	category	of	emissions.  *** 2010 is the most recent year for which this data is available.  **** According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys Waste Reduction Model (WARM) Tool, CO2e reductions from recycling are calculated per the following formula: 1.858 kg CO2e/kg recovered electronic waste.  27 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Paper As the worlds largest information technology (IT) company, with  one of the industrys most extensive supply chains, HP is committed  to the responsible sourcing and use of paper products throughout  our operations and to reducing the environmental impact associ- ated with producing the paper that we sell. We work with leading  environmental organizations to promote responsible forestry prac- tices, increase the use of sustainably sourced paper, and encourage  broader recycling. And as a leading supplier of imaging and printing  equipment, we deliver product innovations that make it easy for  our customers to reduce paper waste. Our Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy details HPs principles  for buying, selling, and using paper and paper-based packaging. We  seek to source paper from suppliers who demonstrate responsible  forestry and manufacturing practices. Our environmental strategy for  packaging prioritizes renewable, recycled, and recyclable materials.  Consequently, we have shifted many products to paper and molded- pulp	packaging	that	is	made	from	responsibly	sourced	fiber. Responsible paper sourcing and sales HP sells approximately 260,000 tonnes of HP-branded printer and  copier papers annually. We require suppliers to verify the source of  pulp	used	in	HP-branded	papers	so	we	can	be	confident	that	it	is	 legally and responsibly sourced. We are working to increase both  the	percentage	of	postconsumer	recycled	fiber	in	HP-branded	 papers	and	our	use	of	pulp	that	is	certified	as	sustainable	by	the	 Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)—widely regarded as the leading  independent standards organization for responsible forestry. HP became an FSC member in 2011, helping to shape the councils  policies and criteria, and we strongly encourage our paper suppliers  to	pursue	FSC	certification.	We	also	achieved	our	goal	of	having	at	 least	40%	of	HP-branded	paper	be	FSC-certified1 and/or contain at  least 30% postconsumer waste (PCW) content by the end of 2011.  HPs new goal is that 50% or more of its branded papers will meet  one or both of these criteria by the end of 2015. The majority of our  photo papers and specialty papers have achieved FSC chain of   custody	(CoC)	certification	(SCS-COC-002255),	demonstrating	that	 the	papers	fiber	originates	from	a	forest	that	is	responsibly	 managed in accordance with FSC principles and criteria.  HP	has	a	preference	for	offering	FSC-certified	papers.	Where	 FSC-certified	pulp	is	not	currently	available,	HP	offers	papers	certi- fied	by	the	Programme	for	the	Endorsement	of	Forest	Certification	 or the Sustainable Forestry Initiative.  To	learn	more	about	certifications	for	specific	HP-branded	paper	 products, as well as the percentage of recycled content in our papers,  see the Media Supplies section of HP Eco Highlights Products. HP is also a member of the World Wildlife Funds Global Forest and  Trade Network, through which we gain valuable expertise to help us  achieve our responsible paper-sourcing goals. (Read more about  collaboration on environmental issues between HP and its  stakeholders.) We have implemented HPs Environmentally Preferable Paper  Policy with our suppliers of HP-branded papers, and we encourage  paper manufacturers to implement environmental management  systems	such	as	ISO	14001.	Our	efforts	include	working	with	major	 paper suppliers to better understand their energy and water use  and their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions so we can help these  suppliers assess the potential for improvements. For more information, see our customer brochure, HP Home and  Office	Papers—Designed	with	the	Environment	in	Mind. Helping customers conserve  resources HP provides technology and services to help make customers  printing	and	paper	use	more	effective.	We	are	also	working	to	 advance the analog-to-digital transformation of the printing and  publishing industry, as well as in other commercial and industrial  sectors that produce materials such as marketing collateral, labels,  and signage. HP Digital Publishing, for example, helps publishing  industry	customers	convert	from	offset	book	printing	to	digital	 on-demand printing. This enables book publishers to print only the  volume of books required to meet demand—helping to reduce  energy and resource use and avoid excess waste. (Read more in  Environmental sustainability on page 19.) We also help customers to: 	Assess, understand, and reduce unnecessary paper use through the  HP EcoSMART Console and EcoSMART Fleet—online tools that  provide centralized access to usage data along with customizable  options for saving energy and paper, and reducing carbon footprint. 	Ensure optimum paper use by taking advantage of automatic two- sided printing, and by setting two-sided printing as the default  across	entire	print	fleets	through	tools	such	as	HP	Universal	Print	 Driver and HP Web Jetadmin. 	Reduce paper waste by up to 55% with HP Smart Print, a free  online tool that helps users select and print only the webpage  content they need.2  1 FSC (license code FSC-C017543). 2 Supports Microsoft Internet Explorer 7.0, 8.0, 9.0 as well as Mozilla Firefox version 3.5 through 5.01. An independent study commissioned by HP compared paper consumption using HP Smart Print with a  web browsers print command. Microsoft Internet Explorer users can save up to 55% and Mozilla Firefox users (tested on v3.6.19) can save up to 15% on paper usage.  28 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Conserving paper across HP We are working to lead the shift to more environmentally sustain- able printing and paper use across HP. Focus areas include: 	Paper used in our offices We use HP Everyday Papers, which are  made from pulp produced through responsible forestry practices,  for	internal	office	printing.	Two-sided	printing	is	the	default	for	 our	office	printers. 	Paper shipped in the box This includes manuals, guides, and  warranties.	We	are	changing	specifications	(for	example,	using	 smaller fonts and thinner paper), reducing document length,  and switching to electronic delivery (where legally permissible).  As a result, HP shipped 14,200 fewer tonnes of paper docu- ments in 2011 compared with 2008. Learn more about our  efforts	to	reduce	packaging. 	Paper used for commercial and promotional purposes We  strongly encourage our commercial print vendors to print all HP  sales	and	marketing	materials	on	paper	that	is	certified	(prefer- ably by FSC) and/or contains postconsumer recycled content. Over  the past 4 years, we have switched to Print on Demand for most of  our sales and marketing materials, reducing storage requirements  and paper waste associated with discarding obsolete documents. Deinking research aids paper recycling HP is working to improve the ability to remove inks from printed  paper for enhanced recycling through research and development in  innovative inks, additives, paper design, and deinking processes.  For instance, the paper design and additives typically used in HP  ColorLok and HP ColorPRO papers greatly enhance inkjet deink- ability. Our innovations in deinking help recycling mills transform  ink-covered paper into clean, high-quality pulp for producing white  recycled paper. (See how this process works.)  During 2011 testing of HP Color Inkjet Web Press prints, more than  15 papers were rated as having Good Deinkability, based on the  European Recovered Paper Council scorecard using INGEDE Method  11. We also partnered with Arjowiggins Graphic on a 2011 recycling  mill trial in which we successfully deinked more than 9 tonnes of  paper printed with HP Indigo inks, using the standard process of the  Arjowiggins	Graphic	Greenfield	mill.	Learn more.  29 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Products and  solutions HP products, services, and solutions represent our greatest opportunity to advance  Positive Impact—HPs drive to help conserve more than we as a company consume. Our  broad	portfolio	helps	customers	use	energy	and	other	resources	more	efficiently,	replace	 outmoded	and	inefficient	processes,	and	live	and	work	more	sustainably.	To	learn	more	 about environmental and social innovation across the infrastructure, software, services,  and	solutions	HP	offers,	visit	our	Tech gallery. HPs holistic approach Through our Design for Environment program, HP takes a holistic approach to reducing the  environmental impact of our products and solutions across their entire life cycle—from their  earliest stages of development through use and end of life. We increasingly use the insights  from life cycle assessment and stakeholder consultation to increase our understanding of  the environmental impact of our products, inform design, and foster innovations in materials  use, manufacturing, and transport processes.  A sustainable approach to services at HP HP provides services that help enterprise customers measure and manage their resource  consumption and carbon emissions across an enterprises data centers, business processes,  and operations. HP Energy and Sustainability Management (ESM) addresses the use of  energy, water, and other resources across a customers entire organization. HP Critical  Facilities Services	focus	on	improving	energy	consumption	and	efficiency,	and	water	usage	 in data centers (see graphic below). And HP Carbon Emissions Management Service helps  customers calculate, record, and analyze energy use and carbon emissions in every aspect  of their IT infrastructure—from the desktop to the mainframe. Highlights 50% HP achieved a 50% reduction in energy consumption of  our products by the end of 2011 compared with 2005  levels—exceeding our original goal of a 40% reduction.*  95% The HP EcoPOD modular data center uses 95% less  facilities energy than a traditional data center.** 74% Replacing 2,000 PC desktops and monitors made in  2005 with the same number of HP thin client solu- tions—including the required servers—would cut  energy consumption by 74% and save an estimated  795,000 kilowatt hours (kWh) per year.*** * The average energy consumption of HP products is estimated using  high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped  product volume. Energy consumption has been estimated in 2005  and annually since. The high-volume product lines include notebook  and desktop computers, inkjet and LaserJet printers, and industry- standard servers. ** New	POD	technology	from	HP	offers	95%	greater	energy	efficiency	 compared with a traditional brick-and-mortar data center, based on  internal HP testing. *** The technology refresh takes 2005 desktops and monitors in an  enterprise setting and replaces them 1:1 with HP t5570 Thin Clients  and new HP Compaq LE19 WLED monitors. In the background, a set  of HP BL460cG7 blade servers and a rack of storage disks support  the new thin clients (about 70 thin clients to one blade server).  30 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Sustainability initiatives across the life cycle Learn more about how HP approaches sustainability at each stage of the life cycle, illustrated by innovations in our PC and printer products,  as well as our data center services. 1 5 2 4 3 Research,   development,   and design HP Labs and HPs business groups  attempt to develop and design  products and solutions—from ink  cartridges to data centers—that  require less energy, use more  sustainable materials, and are  easier to recycle than the previous  generation of HP products. Manufacturing HP collaborates with our  manufacturing partners and  suppliers to understand,  reduce, and report the  environmental impact of  product manufacturing. Packaging and  transport HP strives to develop more  sustainable packaging options  and make transport choices to  decrease fuel use and associated  greenhouse gas emissions. Reuse and  recycling HP works with a global network  of vendors in 67 countries and  territories worldwide to collect,  process for resale, and/or recycle  returned products, as well as  qualify recycled materials for  use in new products.  Use HP strives to improve the  energy	efficiency	and	resource	 consumption of our products  and solutions, and makes it  easy for customers to consider  the environment when buying  and using our products.  31 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Life cycle stage HP Z1 Workstation  Learn more in the Tech gallery. HP ENVY110 printer  Learn more in the Tech gallery. HP Critical Facilities Services  Learn more in the Tech gallery. Research,   development,  and design Registered EPEAT Gold and  ENERGY	STAR	qualified.	The	all-in- one form factor contains less plastic  than a separate PC and monitor of  similar size, and features a  mercury-free 27-inch diagonal  white LED display.  ENERGY	STAR	qualified	e-All-in-One.	 HP	Energy	Efficiency	Analysis	 assesses a data centers energy  efficiency	and	provides	design	and	 site recommendations to reduce  environmental impact.  Manufacturing  Manufactured using brominated  flame	retardant	BFR-	and	polyvinyl	 chloride PVC-free materials.* Manufactured using PVC-free  materials.**  HP	helps	customers	achieve	certifi- cations for the U.S. Green Building  Council (USGBC) LEED Standard for  Data Centers. Packaging and  transport Surface transport within the United  States and Canada uses a 100%  SmartWay-compliant carrier  network. Surface transport within the United  States and Canada uses a 100%  SmartWay-compliant carrier  network. HP develops plans and procedures  to help customers better maintain  and test facilities, which reduce the  need to transport and store spare  parts and equipment. Use Features	up	to	90%	efficient	power	 supply and helps customers  conserve energy by providing real- time power consumption data with  HP Power Assistant.*** Allows for optimum paper use  through automatic two-sided  printing. HP provides ongoing consulting to  help customers increase data center  energy	efficiency.	 Reuse and  recycling Designed to be more than 90%  recyclable by weight. Designed to be 90% recyclable.  Uses Original HP 60 cartridges that  contain up to 70% recycled plastic.  HP Asset Recovery services rebuild,  reuse, and recycle outdated data  center components.   * The	HP	Z1	workstation	meets	the	industry	definition	of	BFR/PVC-free	per	the	iNEMI	Position	Statement	on	Low	Halogen	Electronics.	Plastic	parts	incorporated	into	the	chassis	generally	contain	<	1,000	 ppm	(0.1%)	of	bromine	or	chlorine.	Printed	circuit	board	and	substrate	laminates	generally	contain	<	1,500	ppm	(0.15%)	of	total	bromine	and	chlorine.	Service	parts	after	purchase	may	not	be	BFR/PVC-free.	 External accessories, including power supplies, power cords, and peripherals are not BFR/PVC-free.  ** HP ENVY110	e-All-in-One	is	polyvinyl	chloride-free	(PVC-free);	meeting	the	evolving	definition	of	PVC	free	as	set	forth	in	the	iNEMI	Position	Statement	on	the	Definition	of	Low-Halogen	Electronics	(BFR-/ CFR-/PVC-free).	Plastic	parts	contain	<	1,000	ppm	(0.1%)	of	chlorine	[if	the	CI	source	is	from	CFRs	or	PVC	or	PVC	copolymers].	USB	cable	and	power	cord	are	not	PVC	free.  *** HP Power Assistant enhances management of the system energy requirements and enables users to take control of their power consumption for a reduced impact on the environment. Power calculations and  cost	calculations	are	estimates.	Results	will	vary	based	on	variables,	which	include	information	provided	by	the	user,	time	PC	is	in	different	power	states	(on,	standby,	hibernate,	off),	hardware	configuration,	 variable electricity rates, and utilities provider. HP advises customers to use information reported by HP Power Assistant for reference only and to validate impact in their environment. Environmental calcula- tions were based on U.S. EPA eGrid 2007 data found at www.epa.gov/egrid/. Regional results will vary. Microsoft Windows required. Life cycle assessment HP increasingly uses life cycle assessment (LCA) to better under- stand and reduce the environmental impacts of the products we  offer.	LCA	covers	every	stage	of	a	products	life	cycle,	from	materials  extraction to end of life. Specifically,	LCA	techniques	allow	us	to: 	Assess our current materials, packaging, and products; model  alternatives; and target areas for improvement. 	Develop tools to estimate the carbon footprint of our products of  our products 	Determine which processes, components, and materials have the  greatest environmental impact and prioritize these for analysis,  with the goal of reducing these impacts. 	Develop metrics to help product designers compare design options. 	Support Design for Recycling initiatives.  32 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment LCAs for HP products In 2011, we carried out or commissioned LCAs on several products.  Examples include: 	HP LaserJet black toner cartridges vs. remanufactured  cartridges A 2011 study commissioned by HP found that paper  use during printing—not cartridge manufacturing or production— is the greatest contributor to the environmental impact of toner  cartridges.1 Inconsistent print quality often leads to reprinting and  increased paper consumption, which increases the environmental  impact associated with cartridges. As reported in a separate 2010  study, Original HP LaserJet toner cartridges are more reliable and  deliver higher print quality than the remanufactured cartridges  examined,2 which often means fewer reprints and less paper use.  The 2011 study also reported that recycling at the end-of-life  phase reduces the environmental impact of toner cartridges. HP  offers	recycling programs for HP cartridges. 	HP HDPE banners vs. PVC scrim banners HP banners made of  High-Density Polyethylene (HDPE)—for outdoor use on billboards  and other media—can help reduce the carbon footprint of banner  printing materials by up to 80% compared with traditional poly- vinyl chloride (PVC) scrim banner material.3 Key factors include a  lighter weight that enables reduced raw material consumption as  well as lower transportation4 and disposal costs.5 	Albums of printed photos vs. digital photo frames An HP study  revealed that printing 200 photos—including materials for the  printer and album, energy use, and end-of-life impacts— produced just 15% of the GHG emissions of displaying 200 photos  on a digital photo frame in a typical home for 2 years.6 LCA challenges The LCA process has its limitations in assessing information tech- nology	(IT)	products,	due	to	the	use	of	different	methodologies,	 inconsistent assumptions, the complexity of IT products (including  the large number of suppliers providing inputs), and the rapid rate of  technological	innovation.	These	factors	affect	the	results,	reliability,	 and consistency of LCAs, making it challenging to accurately compare  the environmental impacts of products within our industry. Standardizing LCA approaches   and methodologies HP is collaborating with other industry leaders, academia, nongov- ernmental organizations, and governments to promote and share  best practices, and create universally accepted methods for  performing LCAs. Our objective is to enhance product comparability  across the industry and improve the use and disclosure of LCA data  within our own product designs. Working with others in the IT  industry also helps us reduce the environmental impacts of our  shared supply chains. Through our membership in The Sustainability Consortium (TSC)  and our support for the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition  product carbon footprint (PCF) project, were working to develop a  common approach to LCA and PCF data capture. In addition, were  collaborating with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT),  as well as other original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and  suppliers, to create a Product Attribute to Impact Algorithm (PAIA)  tool in order to estimate the PCF of our notebook and desktop  computers, and monitors in a way that is transparent, objective,  credible, and relevant to customers. The goal of the PAIA tool is to  provide information to the purchaser or end consumer to facilitate  discussion and understanding of a products environmental  impacts. We anticipate releasing the PAIA tool and PCF notebook  data in 2012, once pertinent supplier data has been vetted. Were also working with international groups to strengthen the PCF  and LCA data capture process for imaging and printing products. In  2011, HP helped draft a commercial printing carbon footprint stan- dard as a member of the International Organization for  Standardization (ISO) technical committee working group. Similar  to the goals for the PAIA project, the ISO standard will provide a  transparent, universally accepted methodology to guide HP and  other manufacturers when performing PCF and LCA analyses on  printers and related products. The proposed standard will be up for  a committee vote during 2012. 1 2011 Four Elements Consulting study, commissioned by HP, compared Original HP LaserJet CB436A and CC364A black toner cartridges with a sample of remanufactured alternatives across eight impact  categories. For more information, visit www.hp.com/go/lj-lca-na or www.hp.com/go/lj-lca-emea. 2 QualityLogic 2010 study, commissioned by HP, compared Original HP LaserJet monochrome toner cartridges with remanufactured cartridges sold in North America, Europe, the Middle East, and Africa for the  HP LaserJet P1505 and P4015 printers, HP 36A, and 64A. For details, see www.qualitylogic.com/NAremanreport.pdf or www.qualitylogic.com/EMEAremanreport.pdf. 3 For example, the carbon footprint of banner printing material can be reduced by up to 80% using 170 g/m2 (5-ounce) HP HDPE Reinforced Banner. Calculation by the HP IPG Environmental Technology Platform  Team	(and	confirmed	by	an	independent	environmental	life	cycle	assessment	firm),	based	on	the	activities	associated	with	the	manufacturing	of	the	product,	and	comparing	200	g/m2 (6-ounce) HP Double- sided HDPE Reinforced Banner to 440 g/m2 (13-ounce) HP Outdoor Frontlit Scrim Banner using the Swiss Center for Life Cycle Inventories Ecoinvent 2.2 database and model IPCC 2007 version 1.02; primarily  for the category of PVC/PET/HDPE, and measuring materials extraction, transportation to the manufacturing site, and GHG emissions generated during manufacturing. The reduction in carbon footprint for HP  HDPE Reinforced Banner is slightly less. 4 For example, HP Double-sided HDPE Reinforced Banner based on the transportation cost per square foot of material comparing a 30-roll pallet of HP Double-sided HDPE Reinforced Banner (1,067 mm x 45,7  m/42 in x 150 ft rolls, 870 lbs, 15,750 sq ft of material) and a 20-roll pallet of HP Outdoor Frontlit Scrim Banner (1,067 mm x 35 m/42 in x 115 ft, 844 lbs, 8,050 sq ft of material); using FedEx National shipping  rates (Standard Service) from San Diego, California, United States, to New York, New York, United States, of $4.77 USD/lb for 870 lbs and $4.87 USD/lb for 844 lbs. Ground transportation costs vary by region  and ship-to location. Transportation cost comparison for HP HDPE Reinforced Banner is similar. 5 In	many	European	countries	such	as	the	United	Kingdom,	there	is	a	Landfill	Tax	payable	on	waste	disposed	of	at	landfills.	The	tax	is	regulated	by	HM	Revenue	and	Customs.	Tax	on	active	waste	amounts	to	40/ tonne	(+VAT)	in	2009–2010	and	is	set	to	increase	8/per	year	to	2013.	According	to	www.defra.gov.uk/environment/economy/waste/, this is becoming a standard practice for other EU countries www.cewep. com/data/landfill/index.html. 6 Carbon Footprint Analysis Comparing a Digital Frame to Printed Photos, Tom Etheridge and Tim Strecker.  33 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Research and development Research and development (R&D) at HP focuses on developing  breakthrough technologies, spearheading the next generation of  HP products and services, and creating new opportunities for HPs  businesses and customers. We are committed to innovation both  internally and in collaboration with leading universities and tech- nology companies worldwide.  Innovation and R&D occurs throughout our business groups, and is  essential to HPs ongoing ability to deliver leading products and  services.	Complementing	these	efforts,	HP Labs is our central  research organization. It aims to: 	Deliver business value through a variety of paths to commercial- ization, including technology transfer to HP businesses,  demonstrations, coinnovations with customers, and licensing. 	Drive the conversation and demonstrate thought leadership in  the industry through intellectual property (IP) generation and  publications at premier academic and industry conferences.  	Coinnovate with customers and research partners, creating  transformational solutions for real-world problems through an  open innovation approach. Sustainability is one of eight primary research categories within HP  Labs (see graphic). With assistance from the Sustainable  Ecosystems Research group (SERg), HP Labs integrates sustain- ability within every research category, helping HP create new  technologies, products, services, and business models for the  emerging low-carbon economy. HP Labs research areas Sustainability Services Printing and content delivery Mobile and immersive experience Cloud and security Intelligent infrastructure Information analytics Networking HP employees making an impact:  Chandrakant Patel Chandrakant Patel is an HP senior fellow and interim director of HP  Labs. His vision for building a more sustainable world has helped  make	HP	a	leader	in	energy-efficient	computing.	Learn	more	about	 Chandrakant Patel on page 144.  2011 R&D highlights  HP Labs made progress in several key areas in 2011:  Energy-efficient data centers HP Labs continues to research new ways of developing energy-  efficient,	reduced-emissions	data	centers,	including	the	use	of	 renewable technologies and alternative energy sources. The  research is part of HP Labs sustainable data center project, a large- scale rethinking of how data centers are designed, built, and  operated. With each low-energy innovation, HP moves closer to its  goal of creating a data center that consumes net-zero energy from  nonrenewable sources over its entire life cycle. HP also incorpo- rates many of the technologies developed for the sustainable data  center project into other HP products and solutions. Multiscale Energy Modeling tool HP Labs collaborated with the   HP Enterprise Servers, Storage, and Networking (ESSN) business  group on the development of several technologies used in the   HP POD 240a modular data center, also known as the HP EcoPOD.  For example, the EcoPOD team used the Multiscale Energy Modeling  tool—conceptualized by HP Labs and the University of Limerick in  Ireland—to accurately project the EcoPODs total energy consump- tion and costs. The team has also used the tool to evaluate  potential EcoPOD customer sites in support of the account and  technical teams. HP Labs is currently investigating how to enlist the  Multi-Scale	Energy	Modeling	(M-SEM)	tool	to	run	offline	or	run-time	 optimizations of the EcoPOD infrastructure to further improve  energy	efficiency. Fort Collins data center In March 2011, HP opened a data center in  Fort Collins, Colorado, United States, that doubles as a working test  bed for HP Labs technologies, including sustainable data center  innovations. The facility expands on HPs Converged Infrastructure  solutions with research focused on working to eliminate information  technology	(IT)	sprawl,	increasing	energy	efficiency,	and	reducing	 power consumption. Recent advancements include motorized  Adaptive Vent Tile technology, which makes local cooling adjust- ments for individual IT racks, and a cooling microgrid that employs  multiple cooling resources, including a chiller plant, a water-side  economizer, outside air, on-site energy storage through ice, and an  integrated management system. Learn more about our Fort Collins  data center.  34 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Cloud Sustainability Dashboard HP has developed a Cloud  Sustainability Dashboard (CSD) to help IT professionals better  understand and quantify the sustainability impact of cloud  computing. The dashboard provides a high-level view of the  economic, environmental, and social impacts of related IT and  facility resources and services, including servers, storage,  networking, power and cooling, and IT support. For example, users  can assess the impact of changing electricity costs by region, deter- mine	which	cloud	service	offers	the	smallest	environmental	 footprint,	or	examine	the	potential	effect	of	cloud	computing	on	 economic development.   Resource Management as a Service  HP Labs continues to explore how IT can help cities cope with the  growing strain on nonrenewable resources. In 2011, we initiated  the Resource Management as a Service (RMaaS) project—an   integrated hardware, software, and services platform that can   be tailored to manage energy, water, and waste at a city-wide   scale. Still in its early stages, the model conceives of cities as a  series of campuses connected by transportation and information  networks. Each campus will have its own customizable hardware  and software infrastructure, along with an ecosystem of sustain- ability apps that support real-time resource management based  on availability and demand. HP is working on an RMaaS prototype  at our HP Labs site in Palo Alto, California, United States.  HP open innovation  HP Labs collaborates with top researchers, scientists, and entrepre- neurs worldwide on high-impact joint research projects through an  open innovation research model. This allows us to bring together  global expertise to foster discovery, develop breakthrough tech- nologies, and tackle the next generation of global challenges.  SERg, for example, extends its research capabilities through univer- sity collaborations, and then transfers working solutions to HP  business units for product and service development. The model  provides students the opportunity to work on real-world sustain- ability problems while gaining invaluable experience and knowledge  for their future careers at HP Labs or elsewhere. Among our most  notable successes is the Environmental Sustainability Assessment  Tool (ESAT), which originated from a multiyear project with the  University of California-Berkeley (UC Berkeley) in Berkeley, California,  United	States,	addressing	energy	efficiency	in	the	data	center.	 SERg is currently collaborating with such top research institutions   as UC Berkeley in Berkeley, California, United States; Carnegie  Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States;  Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, Virginia, United States; and the  University of Limerick in Limerick, Ireland.  Visit HP Labs for more information about HPs innovation for the  environment and other research areas. HP Labs and social innovation HP Labs and our business groups R&D teams also further social  innovation by providing solutions to improve healthcare access and  delivery, enhancing the quality of life for individuals and communi- ties worldwide. Learn more about Social innovation on page 147. Design HP considers the environment in designing its products and solu- tions, from the smallest ink cartridge to entire data centers. We  emphasize sustainability principles when selecting the materials  for our products and packaging, assessing the resources required  for transporting products, determining how they will function  during use, and facilitating their reuse and recycling. This holistic design approach extends to how we deliver informa- tion technology (IT) infrastructure and data center services for  enterprises. We design complex IT systems in ways that can help  large organizations consume less energy and water, reduce green- house	gas	emissions,	and	operate	more	efficiently.  35 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Sustainability in product design Environmental considerations are integral to HP research and  development. We continually challenge ourselves to reduce the  environmental impact of our products and meet increasing  customer demand for more sustainable alternatives. Through our company-wide Design for Environment (DfE) program,  launched in 1992, more than 50 environmental product stewards  work with design teams to identify and evaluate potential improve- ments in energy	efficiency, materials choices, and recyclability. The  principles of DfE help set requirements and fuel innovations in all  new HP-designed hardware products and printing supplies.  Environmental product stewards help teams to improve product  performance, measure progress, and communicate results to  customers, HP management, and other stakeholders. In November 2011, we launched HP Project Moonshot—a multiyear,  multiphase program dedicated to designing extreme-low-energy  server	technologies.	By	incorporating	more	efficient	chip	designs	 that deliver increased computing power, we expect Project  Moonshot to reduce energy use by up to 89% and costs by up to  63%.1	These	designs	will	also	improve	server	efficiency,	scalability,	 and utilization, while requiring up to 94% less rack space at a data  center.1 We plan to combine our Project Moonshot work with HP  Converged Infrastructure innovations to enable customers to share  storage, networking, and management resources across thousands  of servers while reducing energy usage and cooling. Through the HP	Pathfinder	Program, part of Project Moonshot, we  are assembling a network of industry leaders—including indepen- dent software vendors and computing, storage, and networking  partners—to collaborate on developing and deploying extreme- low-energy	server	solutions.	We	expect	HP	Pathfinder	to	spur	 hardware and software innovations that support the evolution of  cloud-based computing services, on-demand computing, and other  technology environments that require massive data center  infrastructures. Design for recyclability We design HP products to help facilitate recycling. For example, we  use common fasteners and snap-in features and avoid applying  glues, adhesives, or welds where feasible. This helps recyclers to  more easily dismantle our products and to separate and identify  different	plastics.	Most	HP	PCs	are	more	than	90%	recyclable,	by	 weight.2 In addition, HP workstations and the Elite and Pro series  desktop PCs have a chassis that can be easily disassembled for  upgrade to extend product life and for recycling at end of life. As	part	of	HPs	efforts	to	enhance	recycling,	we	are	also	working	  to improve the ability to remove inks from printed paper through  research in innovative inks, additives, paper design, and deinking  processes. Sustainability in IT and data center  design services Through	our	IT	and	data	center	design	services,	we	offer	expertise	 in creating facilities and operations that help customers conserve  energy and other resources while reducing costs and improving  business	efficiency.	We	apply	many	of	the	same	technical	innova- tions and best practices from HPs own operations to our designs  for customers. HP Critical Facilities Services (CFS) provides strategic consulting,  design-build, and operational assurance resources to help  customers	upgrade	existing	data	centers	or	build	highly	efficient	 new	facilities.	For	example,	our	Energy	Efficiency	Analysis	compares	 customers	power	usage	effectiveness	and	other	measures	to	 industry best practices and recommends improvements. Further,  HP	CFS	helps	customers	achieve	key	energy-efficiency	certifications	 such as the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) LEED Standard for  Data Centers, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ENERGY  STAR for Data Centers, and U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Save  Energy Now. As of April 2012, HP CFS had designed more than 60%  of	all	LEED-certified	data	centers. HP CFS has been integral to Citigroups leadership in the design and  construction of highly reliable data centers that are also more  sustainable.	The	LEED-certified	centers	that	Citi	worked	on	with	HP	 CFS,	as	well	as	other	LEED-certified	projects,	keep	Citi	on	track	with	 its $50 billion USD, 10-year program to reduce its environmental  footprint. Learn more. Details of the HP CFS life cycle approach can be found in the  Products and solutions section life cycle graphic.  1 Based on weighted average performance projections for workloads such as web serving, memcached, and data analytics. Cost estimates include infrastructure, space, and power and cooling costs over 3 years. 2 Calculated using HPs Recyclability Assessment Tool. Design for accessibility  HP strives to create products, solutions, and online materials that  are accessible to everyone, including people with disabilities and  seniors with age-related limitations. Our product design teams  regularly explore ways to enhance accessibility, productivity, and  user comfort. Examples of accessibility features on HP products  include	buttons	identifiable	by	touch,	ports	and	switches	posi- tioned within easy reach, and large adjustable displays. Our  customer support programs incorporate assistive technologies  such as Telecommunications Relay Service, Video Relay Service,  and Web Captioned Telephone to better serve users who are deaf  or hard of hearing. See the HP Accessibility website for more information and examples.  36 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Materials HP evaluates environmental impact across the product life cycle  when selecting materials for use in our products. We design products  to use less material, and we seek alternatives to materials of concern.  We strive to use recycled materials when possible, and we comply  with all relevant government regulations wherever we do business.  Our objective is to minimize the environmental impact of HP products  while continuing to deliver exceptional value to customers. Using less material HP	works	to	use	materials	more	efficiently	through	innovations	  in technology and product design. For example, HP thin client  computing devices can require up to 50% less material to produce  than a traditional HP desktop PC. We also provide software and  services that help customers optimize paper and supplies  consumption. Evaluating substances of concern HP proactively evaluates materials of concern. We may restrict  substances because of customer preferences, legal requirements,  or because we believe it is appropriate based on a precautionary  approach.	When	scientific	analysis	reveals	a	potential	health	or	 environmental concern, we seek to replace substances with  commercially viable alternatives. HP carefully assesses the environ- mental, health, and/or safety risks of these alternatives. Nanotechnology Nanotechnology holds long-term promise for creating electronics  applications that require fewer materials and consume less energy.  Since 1995, HP Labs has led research in the areas of nanoarchitec- ture, nanoelectronics, nanomechanics, and nanophotonics.  Outcomes of this research include advances in memristor-based  computer memory, which has the potential to run 10 times faster  and	use	10	times	less	power	than	an	equivalent	flash	memory	chip. HP product proactive materials restriction/substitution timeline* 1990 1995 2000 2005 DfE programs started 2010 2015 PVC in  packaging PVC from case plastics Ozone-depleting substances Mercury/mercury  compounds (except bulbs) BFRs in  external case plastic  parts PBB/PBDE (including DecaBDE) Cadmium Remaining uses of BFRs and PVC in new  HP brand personal computing products Antimony Bismuth/bismuth compounds Bisphenol-A Mercury in bulbs Nonylphenol  Other peruorinated chemicals Remaining uses of BFRs and PVC  Remaining uses of certain  phthalates Selenium/selenium compounds  Mercury in notebook products Lead in PVC cables Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) Lead Hexavalent chromium Beryllium/beryllium compounds Bisphenol-A in thermal paper Antimony trioxide in BFR/PVC-free products Arsenic/arsenic compounds Bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate  (DEHP), dibutyl  phthalate  (DBP), and butyl benzyl  phthalate (BBP) in new  personal computing  products, complete in 2012 Remaining uses of  phthalates (DEHP,  DBP, BBP, and DIBP)  and HBCDD**    * Dates	refer	to	when	proactively	adopted	materials	restrictions	were	first	introduced	on	an	HP	product,	ahead	of	regulatory	requirements.	Materials	in	gray	text	beyond	April	2012	have	been	identified	by	 stakeholders	as	potential	materials	of	concern.	Future	possible	restriction	of	those	materials	depends,	in	part,	on	the	qualification	of	acceptable	alternative	materials.	For	a	comprehensive	list	of	HPs	materi- als restrictions, including numerous materials restricted by HP on a worldwide basis in response to regional regulations, refer to HPs	General	specification	for	the	environment.  ** Limited to products within the scope of the EU RoHS Directive.  37 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment HP recognizes that since the properties of matter can depend on  size and shape at the nanoscale, consideration of potential health  and safety issues of nanostructured materials must be an integral  part of any research program that seeks to bring such materials to  market. Our Intelligent Infrastructure Research group at HP Labs  has been a leader in research in this area. HP employees making an impact:  Dr. Paul Mazurkiewicz As a senior scientist, Dr. Paul Mazurkiewicz helps identify materials  that have a reduced risk of health and environmental impact for use  in HP products. Learn more about Paul Mazurkiewicz on page 142. HP compliance process To help ensure HP meets legal requirements as well as our own  materials standards, we follow a compliance process that has three  key pillars:  	The HP General Specification for the Environment (GSE) includes  substance and materials requirements for parts and components  that are used in HP products, packaging, and manufacturing  processes. 	The HP Supplier Safe and Legal Standard provides a consistent  management system standard for the design, manufacture, and  delivery of products that meet regulations concerning electro- magnetic compatibility, safety, telecommunication authorization,  energy	efficiency,	and	other	product	content	specifications. 	The HP Active Verification Material Testing Specification	defines	 our requirements for testing materials used in HP products for the  presence	of	specific	substances	that	are	restricted	under	the	GSE. In 2011, we added restrictions to the HP GSE on the use of certain  phthalates in plastic parts in HP products. We are considering addi- tional future restrictions on phthalates.  Phasing out BFRs and PVC HP	is	working	to	phase	out	brominated	flame	retardants	(BFRs)	and	 polyvinyl chloride (PVC) where technically feasible in new products.  For example, 96% of HP Compaq business PCs and HP notebooks  launched in 2011 or after are BFR and PVC free.1  The timeline above shows substances that HP has proactively  restricted or is considering for restriction. Examples of BFR- and PVC-free products*   in 2011 	The HP Compaq 8200 Elite Ultra-Slim Desktop PC 	The HP EliteBook 2760p Notebook PC, which also features a  mercury-free LED-backlit display and is made with at least   12% postconsumer recycled plastic 	The HP ENVY110 e-All-in-One, the worlds only PVC-free printer   as of August 2011**  * Meeting	the	evolving	definition	of	BFR/PVC-free	as	set	forth	in	the	iNEMI	Position	Statement	 on	the	Definition	of	Low-Halogen	Electronics	(BFR/CFR/PVC-Free).	Plastic	parts	contain	<	1,000	 ppm	(0.1%)	of	bromine	[if	the	Br	source	is	from	BFRs]	and	<	1,000	ppm	(0.1%)	of	chlorine	[if	the	 Cl source is from CFRs or PVC or PVC copolymers]. All printed circuit board (PCB) and substrate  laminates	contain	bromine/chlorine	total	<	1,500	ppm	(0.15%)	with	a	maximum	chlorine	of	900	 ppm (0.09%) and maximum bromine being 900 ppm (0.09%). Service parts after purchase may not  be BFR/PVC free. Power supply and power cords are not BFR/PVC free.  ** The HP ENVY110	e-All-in-One	is	polyvinyl	chloride-free	(PVC-free),	meeting	the	evolving	definition	 of	PVC-free	as	set	forth	in	the	iNEMI	Position	Statement	on	the	Definition	of	Low-Halogen	Elec- tronics	(BFR/CFR/PVC-Free).	Plastic	parts	contain	<	1,000	ppm	(0.1%)	of	chlorine	(if	the	Cl	source	is	 from CFRs or PVC or PVC copolymers). Printers sold in China, India, and Korea have power cords that  are not PVC-free. USB cable, required in limited geographic areas, is not PVC-free. Assessing alternative materials When replacing substances of concern, we seek to identify alterna- tives with a reduced risk of potential human health and environmental  impacts that also meet our performance and cost criteria. To support these objectives, we have developed an integrated  assessment approach to analyzing potential replacements for  substances of concern. Established in 2007, our approach begins  with a hazard-based screening step to help rule out alternative  options that are of equal or greater concern than the substances  that they would replace. This comparative chemical hazard  screening is based on the GreenScreenTM for Safer Chemicals frame- work developed by the nongovernmental organization (NGO) Clean  Production Action.  Integrating the GreenScreen framework into our overall alterna- tives assessment protocol has enabled HP to more easily select  replacement materials with a reduced risk of human health and  environmental impacts. We have completed more than 130 assess- ments since the program began. Projects in 2011 included  evaluating PVC-free power cords, process cleaners, and general  plastic resins. We also participated in the Green Chemistry and  Commerce Council (GC3) plasticizer alternatives assessment  project, which employs GreenScreen. 1 Meeting	the	evolving	definition	of	BFR/PVC-free	as	set	forth	in	the	iNEMI	Position	Statement	on	the	Definition	of	Low-Halogen	Electronics	(BFR/CFR/PVC-Free).	Plastic	parts	contain	<	1,000	ppm	(0.1%)	of	 bromine	[if	the	Br	source	is	from	BFRs]	and	<	1,000	ppm	(0.1%)	of	chlorine	[if	the	Cl	source	is	from	CFRs	or	PVC	or	PVC	copolymers].	All	printed	circuit	board	(PCB)	and	substrate	laminates	contain	bromine/chlo- rine	total	<	1,500	ppm	(0.15%)	with	a	maximum	chlorine	of	900	ppm	(0.09%)	and	maximum	bromine	being	900	ppm	(0.09%).	Service	parts	after	purchase	may	not	be	BFR/PVC	free.	Power	supply	and	power	 cords are not BFR/PVC free.  38 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Building on HPs success with this approach, we joined with the  Business-NGO Working Group for Safer Chemicals and Sustainable  Materials in 2011 to help draft a version of the chemical alterna- tives assessment protocol for use by other industries and groups to  improve their materials selection processes. Using recycled materials HP continues to expand the use of recycled materials in its prod- ucts. For example: 	The HP EliteBook 2560p,	launched	in	2011,	is	our	first	notebook	 computer made with more than 20% postconsumer recycled plastic. 	The HP Deskjet 3070A e-All-in-One printer contains 25% recycled  plastic, and the HP Deskjet 3050A e-All-in-One contains 25% post- consumer recycled plastic. As of July 2011, no other manufacturer  had claimed to produce a printer made with more recycled content.2 Through our closed loop recycling process, Original HP ink and  LaserJet toner cartridges are reduced to raw materials that can  then be used to make new cartridges as well as other metal and  plastic products. We are also developing closed loop recycling  processes	for	some	of	our	hardware	products.	This	effort	involves	 recovering plastic from electronics products at HPs North American  recycling facilities, and recompounding the plastic to return it to  virgin resin properties and colors for use in creating new electronics  products.  Supporting relevant government  regulations HP complies fully with materials regulations, and we were among  the	first	companies	to	extend	the	restrictions	in	the	European	Union	 (EU) Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive to our  products worldwide through the HP GSE. HP has contributed to the  development of related legislation in Europe, as well as China,  India, and Vietnam. We believe the RoHS directive and similar laws play an important  role in promoting industry-wide elimination of substances of  concern. We have supported the inclusion of additional substances—  including PVC, BFRs, and certain phthalates—in future RoHS   legislation that pertains to electrical and electronics products.   (See our compliance statement.) HP complies with the EUs Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation,  and Restriction of Chemical substances (REACH) legislation, which  includes requirements for assessing and managing the risks posed by  chemicals. We accomplish this by working closely with suppliers to  gather information on listed substances that may be in HP product  materials and providing related safety information to customers.  Our approach to regulatory compliance also covers material  sourcing. HP is working with a range of stakeholders to help ensure  that conflict	minerals—minerals originating from the Democratic  Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries that are used to  produce tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold—do not directly or indi- rectly fund groups responsible for human-rights abuses.  Manufacturing Product manufacturing, managed primarily by HP suppliers, repre- sents a sizable amount of our overall greenhouse gas (GHG)  emissions footprint. HP collaborates with our manufacturing part- ners and suppliers to reduce this environmental impact. As part of our Supply Chain Social and Environmental Responsibility  (SER) program, HP focuses on a broad range of environmental  performance factors across our business. We capture data on  energy use, GHG emissions, and water use to assess our suppliers  carbon	footprint,	communicate	the	findings,	and	engage	suppliers	 to improve their performance. In	2008,	HP	became	the	first	major	information	technology	(IT)	 company to publish aggregated supply chain GHG emissions,   beginning with data from 2007. We have continued working with  suppliers and industry organizations to improve energy manage- ment within our supplier base.  2 HP IPG Research Alliance, July 2011. Based on a survey of publicly available information.  39 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Supplier GHG emissions data To	provide	context	for	the	data	we	report	on	first-tier	supplier	GHG	 emissions, we also report the percentage of our overall spending on  first-tier	suppliers	that	the	data	represents.	Each	year	since	2007,	 that percentage has increased. The proportion of that spend with  suppliers that have reduction goals has also continued to rise, from  67% in 2008 to 88% in 2010 (the most recent year data is avail- able). Additionally, the percentage of that spend represented by  suppliers that estimate their own Scope 3 GHG emissions1 have  increased from 29% in 2008 to 54% in 2010. During that same time  period, the data we captured has shown a steady decrease in GHG  emissions intensity (see graph below). Supplier GHG emissions performance* [tonnes CO2e] 0 1,000,000 2,000,000 3,000,000 4,000,000 5,000,000 2010 2009 2008 2007 0 20 40 60 80 100 			Aggregate	first-tier	suppliers	Scope	1	and	2	  emissions 3,500,000 4,100,000 3,500,000 4,800,000    Coverage [percentage of first-tier supplier spend  captured] 81% 86% 91% 95%  * Refers	to	first-tier	suppliers	for	manufacturing,	materials,	and	components.	Emissions	are	estimated	based	on	suppliers	dollar	volume	of	HP	business	compared	with	their	 total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. 2010 is the most recent year data is available. Supplier GHG emissionsintensity [tonnes CO2e/first-tier supplier spend, 2007 = 100%] 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 2010 2009 2008 2007  		Supplier	GHG	emissionsintensity 100% 96% 96% 94% 1 The	World	Resources	Institute	(WRI)	defines	Scope	1,	2,	and	3	GHG	emissions	in	its	Greenhouse	Gas	Protocol;	see	www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/faq.  40 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment The	growth	in	aggregate	first-tier	emissions	in	2010	may	be	 attributable to several factors, including strong business growth  and a 4% increase in data collection scope. As more companies  disclose emissions numbers, and require their partners to do the  same, the data is becoming more comprehensive, inclusive, and  accurate. HP remains at the forefront of encouraging transpar- ency in data collection, leading to greater insight into emissions  across the IT industry. Environmental hot spot analysis We enlisted the services of HP Energy and Sustainability  Management (ESM) to conduct an assessment that would comple- ment data received from suppliers. Leveraging analytic modeling  tools from HP Labs, ESM developed a supply chain hot spot anal- ysis and service that rapidly analyzes energy and natural resource  use in any companys supply chain.  The analysis examined HPs supply chain, from raw materials  extraction	to	product	manufacturing,	considering	specific	environ- mental aspects including electricity and natural gas use, water  consumption, waste generation, and GHG emissions. The results of  this analysis will help shape HPs future capability building  programs,	and	may	be	used	to	identify	specific	areas	of	focus	in	our	 supply	chain	to	improve	efficiency	and	performance. Expanding the Energy Efficiency  Partnership program in China  In 2010, HP became a charter member of the BSR Energy  Efficiency	Partnership	(EEP)	program	in	China.	The	working	group	 helps suppliers reduce energy use and associated GHG emissions,  and lower costs. Throughout 2011, all 12 participating supplier  sites developed and submitted action plans for energy manage- ment, including a total of 24 new energy-saving projects (see  sidebar at right).  The	programs	target	improved	energy	efficiency	across	operations:	 heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC); boilers and steam  heating; lighting; heat recovery ventilation (for fresh air and climate  control); compressed air; and electrical motor and drive systems  used	to	operate	machinery.	During	the	first	10	months	of	the	2011	 program cycle (through June 2011), participating HP suppliers  reported that they saved a total of 6 million kilowatt hours (kWh),  equal to the carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions of  removing 811 passenger vehicles from the road for a year.2  In 2012, HP is expanding its role in the initiative by partnering with  the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), extending the reach of the initiative  to additional companies. Program participation will total 34  suppliers and 50 sites across China, up from eight suppliers and   12 sites in 2011. A partner in efficiency Jabil, a worldwide electronics solution provider, joined the EEP  program in 2010. The company provides design, production, and  product management services to electronics and technology  companies. One component of their EEP participation was a 2011 comprehen- sive	energy	audit	by	an	external	firm	at	Jabils	manufacturing	site	in	 Huangpu. As a result, the company instituted a number of energy- management practices. One involved a smart metering system to  track and measure energy consumption throughout the facility.  While the initial phase is focused on electricity use, future moni- toring will include water, steam, natural gas, and other resources  used in Jabils manufacturing, heating, lighting, and operations. During	the	first	6	months,	Jabil	saved	almost	2.7	million	kWh	at	the	 site, helping to reduce GHG emissions and deliver substantial cost  savings. Due to these energy savings, the system is expected to pay  for itself within 2 years.  2 U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator. For details, see www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-resources/calculator.html.  41 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Packaging Packaging	can	contribute	significantly	to	the	environmental	footprint	 of HP products. It also provides an opportunity for us to demonstrate  to customers our commitment to conserving resources. While we aim  to reduce environmental impacts associated with the materials,  transport, and recycling or disposal of packaging, we must balance  those	efforts	with	other	considerations	such	as	adequate	product	 protection, regulatory requirements, total costs, and the overall  impact of alternative packaging options. HP pursues a holistic  approach to packaging that considers all phases of the process— from raw materials acquisition to end of life—to guide our decisions. We integrate these considerations into our guidelines for third- party packaging vendors, enabling them to create more innovative  and environmentally responsible packaging designs. Also, our  General	Specification	for	the	Environment	(GSE) restricts  substances of concern and requires that all materials used in HP  packaging be recyclable. Our environmental strategy for packaging consists of the following  six dimensions. (Examples of our work across each of these dimen- sions can be found in the table below.) Remove We strive to eliminate the use of substances of concern when  lower-impact alternatives are readily available. For example, our  GSE bans the use of PVC as a packaging material with minor excep- tions.1 (See related information regarding our products in Materials  on page 36.) Reduce To	be	effective,	packaging	designs	must	take	into	account	a	prod- ucts size, weight, and durability. In turn, the size and weight of  packaging	materials	affect	the	carbon	footprint	of	product trans- port. With these considerations in mind, we continue to reduce the  amount of packaging used per product while maintaining adequate  protection. We meet or exceed local legal standards for packaging  minimization where they exist; where local standards do not exist,  we stipulate that packaging cannot be more than twice the volume  of the product it contains. We have also continued to reduce the  amount of paper delivered with products, such as warranties   and manuals, by making the information available online for our  customers rather than including it in the packaging. (See Paper on  page 27 for more information.) Reuse We design packaging to enable reuse where feasible, while providing  sufficient	protection	for	our	products.	This	includes	making	it	easier	 for our retailers, distributors, and enterprise customers to return  packaging materials to HP or reuse the materials for future ship- ments. For example, we incorporate reusable packaging when  shipping certain components from suppliers to factories, and when  sending certain replacement parts to customers. Recycle We are committed to increasing the proportion of recycled content  in HP packaging materials. The amount of recycled content varies  widely by region, packaging material, and product type. Where  feasible, HP is shifting from plastic packaging to paper and molded  pulp alternatives that contain recycled content and/or have been  certified	in	accordance	with	a	sustainable	forest	management	stan- dard. In some instances, however, plastic packaging may actually  decrease	carbon	footprint	because	it	is	significantly	smaller	and	 lighter than the molded pulp packaging that would be needed to  provide a similar level of protection. In those cases, we increasingly  use expanded polystyrene (EPS) or polyethylene (PE) foam cush- ions that contain recycled plastic. Replace Whenever possible, we use packaging materials that reduce   environmental impact while still meeting our product protection  requirements. We evaluate the total life cycle of materials to  assess the overall impact of a change; for example, weighing  factors such as recyclability and the potential to reduce green- house gas (GHG) emissions. 1 The restriction on PVC in HP packaging does not apply to protective tape covers with a surface area equal to or less than 15 square centimeters (2.35 square inches) and/or weighing less than 1g (0.035 ounce).  42 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Influence As	a	major	purchaser	of	packaging	materials,	HP	uses	its	influence	 to encourage packaging vendors to increase the use of recycled  fiber	content	and	sustainably	harvested	fiber	in	our	paper-based	 packaging. We are also working with providers of 100% recycled  EPS and PE foam cushions to broaden industry adoption of these  materials and build the infrastructure required to make them  easier to recycle. Our support helped Sealed Air, a major supplier  of recycled PE foam used in cushions for HP packaging, to expand  its closed loop recycling process globally and create Ethafoam  MRC, which is made with 100% recycled resin content (see quote  at right). HP	has	enhanced	its	sustainability	efforts	 by working with its packaging suppliers,  production factories, and end users to  send back their PE foam material scrap  through	our	closed	loop	recycling	system	 instead	of	to	a	landfill.	Together,	we	are	 improving the design of PE foam pack- aging for HP to facilitate the safe arrival  of its products, while also further reducing  environmental impact. —Ron Cotterman, Sustainability Director, Sealed Air HP packaging: environmental highlights HP packaging innovations often touch on multiple dimensions of our environmental strategy, as shown in the following examples. Remove HP notebook PCs Eliminated a cardboard insert from packaging   to use fewer materials. Reduce HP notebook PCs Reduced packaging material weight by an average of  180 grams per unit—reducing GHG emissions from  product transport by an estimated 15,000 tonnes of  carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) annually. HP Officejet Pro 8600 e-All-in-One printer Influenced	product	design	to	enable	smaller	and	 lighter packaging, reducing GHG emissions from  product transport by an estimated 2,100 tonnes   of CO2e annually. Reuse Bulk shipping of products Return	corrugated	fiberboard	trays	to	manufacturers	 after they have been used for bulk shipping of prod- ucts to retailers. HP BladeSystem blade server bulk packs Supply chain partners reuse packaging materials  when shipping server components from one factory  to the next. Recycle HP high-capacity XL ink cartridge combo packs Use paperboard containing 15% recycled content for  the external shell. HP commercial desktop PCs Units shipped in North  America are packaged   with foam cushions   made from 100% recycled  plastic content. Replace HP high-capacity XL ink  cartridge combo packs Replaced thermoformed   plastic with paperboard in  external packaging. HP commercial desktop PCs Replaced molded pulp with recycled PE foam   cushions that are smaller and lighter. Influence Desktop PCs Working with providers of recycled foam cushions to broaden industry adoption and build recycling  infrastructure.  43 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Transport HP conducts business in more than 170 countries globally, and  ships more than a million products around the world on a typical  day. We are committed to reducing the greenhouse gas (GHG) emis- sions and other environmental impacts related to these activities.  In 2011, GHG emissions related to transporting our products  equaled an estimated 1.9 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equiva- lent (CO2e), approximately the same as in 2010. This is roughly  comparable to GHG emissions from our own operations. Our strategy for decreasing fuel use and transport-related emis- sions concentrates on three areas. Optimizing product transport  networks HP is decreasing the distance products need to travel, and therefore  reducing fuel use and GHG emissions. We accomplish this by  locating manufacturing facilities closer to customers, using distri- bution centers that allow us to operate the most direct routes, and  consolidating shipments when feasible. In 2011, HP began manufacturing some desktop PCs and monitors  bound for the Middle East, Mediterranean, and Africa in the north- western Turkish city of Corlu, instead of in the Czech Republic. This  shift converted shipments from air to ocean, reducing costs and  decreasing fuel-related GHG emissions that year by more than 30%.1 We	also	recognize	the	environmental	benefits	of	warehouse	consoli- dation. In the United States, HP consolidated three West Coast  warehouses into one—reducing the total square footage,  improving	operational	and	energy	efficiencies,	and	increasing	the	 consolidation of outbound freight. With all inbound freight now  shipped to a single port and consolidated for distribution, we were  able to decrease average transport distance per shipment by  approximately 200 road miles. To further reduce overall environmental impacts, HP takes a holistic  approach to the relationship between product packaging and trans- port. Learn more in Packaging on page 41. Shifting modes of transport  We typically ship HP products by ocean or air from the manufac- turing location to regional distribution centers, and then by truck or  rail	to	their	final	destinations.	Because	emissions	vary	greatly	by	 transport mode, shifting modes can reduce impacts substantially  (see chart below).2 In 2011, HP air-to-ocean conversions included  selected	shipments	of	HP	notebook	PCs	from	Asia	Pacific	to	Europe,	 Latin America, and the United States, resulting in an estimated  savings of 15,000 tonnes of CO2e. 1 Calculation based on GHG Protocol weight/distance method. 2 According to the World Resources Institute GHG Protocol. Calculation methodology based on GHG Protocol distance-based method. Estimated GHG emissions from product transport, 2011* 2010 2011 Mode GHG emissions  [million metric  tonnes CO2e]  GHG emissions   [percentage of  total from trans- port for year] Shipment mix by  weight-distance  [approximate,  kg-km]** GHG emissions  [million metric  tonnes CO2e] GHG emissions   [percentage of  total from trans- port for year] Shipment mix by  weight-distance  [approximate,  kg-km]** Air 1.2 65% 10% 1.3 70% 10% Ocean 0.2 10% 70% 0.2 10% 70% Road   (includes rail) 0.5 25% 20% 0.4 20% 20%   * Table does not include data from all recent HP acquisitions.  ** All	figures	rounded;	improvements	in	mode	transport	efficiency	may	not	be	fully	reflected.  44 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Influencing logistics service  providers HP works with logistics service providers (LSPs) who maintain high  standards for reducing their environmental footprint and that of  their customers. We require our LSPs to track GHG emissions asso- ciated with the transport of HP products.  In the United States and Canada, all HP consumer products are  shipped using a network composed entirely of surface transporta- tion	carriers	certified	by	SmartWay—a collaboration between the  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the freight trans- portation industry. Now considered a baseline requirement in  shipping and logistics, SmartWay aims to reduce fuel consumption  and GHG and other air emissions.  Use Addressing impacts during customer use of our products and solu- tions is an integral part of HPs life cycle approach to environmental  sustainability.  For	example,	HP	works	to	improve	energy	efficiency	across	our	 entire portfolio, from the smallest devices to the largest data  centers. In 2011, we exceeded our goal of reducing the energy  consumption of HP products1 and associated greenhouse gas (GHG)  emissions to 40% below 2005 levels by the end of 2011, achieving  a 50% reduction 9 months ahead of schedule. HP recognizes the importance of addressing energy and paper  consumption during product use. For many of our products, the   use phase represents the largest portion of their respective   carbon footprints. At the same time, relative impacts vary across a hardware port- folio as diverse as HPs, which ranges from single user personal  computing devices and printers to enterprise-wide servers,  storage equipment, and complete data centers. Conscious of the  complexity that portfolio usage and global power mix entail, HP is  undertaking	an	effort	to	measure	the	carbon	footprint	during	use	 of sold products according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG  Protocol) Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and  Reporting Standard.2  To reduce resource and energy consumption during product use,   HP continually strives to improve product performance and provide  customers with the knowledge and tools that help to inform their  purchase decisions and usage. HP Energy and Sustainability Management  (ESM) In early 2012, ESM began working with a major northeastern  American city to assess its energy consumption and develop a stra- tegic approach to reducing energy costs. ESM advised the city on  technology and software solutions best suited to reduce its energy  use, decrease GHG emissions, and meet goals established by city  government. The project included a rapid assessment of the citys  ongoing energy use to identify opportunities to reduce a growing  energy budget. Using the web-based HP Carbon Footprint Calculator for computing  and printing products, customers can compare estimated paper and  energy use and costs, along with carbon emissions for HP and  Compaq	products,	side	by	side,	based	on	location-specific	data.3 In  2011, we expanded the calculator to cover more than 9,000 HP and  non-HP devices.4 The calculator receives more than 10,000 visits  per month. Personal computers and devices At the end of 2011, HP had more than 400 PC and display products  with	configurations	that	are	ENERGY	STAR	qualified	with	85%	effi- cient power supplies. One example is the HP TouchSmart610 PC  series. If just 10% of all desktop PCs and monitors sold in 2005 were  recycled	and	replaced	with	the	energy-efficient HP TouchSmart PCs,  1 The average energy consumption of HP products is estimated using high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. Energy consumption has been estimated in 2005 and  annually since. The high-volume product lines include notebook and desktop computers, inkjet and LaserJet printers, and industry-standard servers. 2 The GHG Protocol, a decade-long partnership between the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), is the most widely used international account- ing tool for government and business leaders to understand, quantify, and manage greenhouse gas emissions. More information at www.ghgprotocol.org. 3 Power,	cost,	and	carbon	calculations	are	estimates.	Results	will	vary	based	on	variables,	which	include	information	provided	by	the	user,	time	PC	is	in	different	power	states	(on,	standby,	off),	time	PC	is	on	AC,	 hardware	configuration,	variable	electricity	rates,	and	utilities	provider.	HP	advises	customers	to	use	information	reported	by	this	Carbon	Footprint	Calculator	for	reference	only	and	to	validate	impact	in	their	 environment. For more information about calculation assumptions, see www.hp.com/large/psg/toolassumptions.pdf.  4 The Carbon Footprint Calculator also estimates the users costs for the electricity and paper a printer consumes. It is based on certain key assumptions and makes use of data and models generated by third parties.  45 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment more than 3.1 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e)  emissions	would	be	avoided	during	the	first	year,	equivalent	to	 removing 596,000 cars from the road for a year.5  As of January 2012, HP has 89 EPEAT Gold registered personal  computing products, meeting the highest global standards for  greener electronics as measured by the Electronic Product  Environmental Assessment Tool. And as of the end of 2011, the entire  family of HP ENVY Notebook PCs is EPEAT Gold registered as well. The HP Compaq 8200 Elite ultraslim desktop PC delivers 40% faster  performance	and	up	to	50%	greater	energy	efficiency	than	the	 previous-generation product.6  Helping end users more easily manage their energy use, HP Power  Assistant	offers	real-time	visibility	and	control	of	a	PCs	energy	use,	 and	helps	customers	meet	their	goals	for	more	energy-efficient	 computing. The Usage Details feature estimates the costs of  running a PC—in dollars, kilowatt hours, and CO2e emissions.7  Imaging and printing As	of	December	2011,	we	offered	the	greatest	number	of	ENERGY	 STAR	qualified	printers	and	multifunction	printers	(MFPs)	in	the	 industry.	Further,	HP	increased	the	overall	energy	efficiency	of	our	 ink and laser printing products by 46% from 2005 to 2011.8  HP continues to pioneer ways to help customers reduce the carbon  footprint of their printing. Worldwide in 2012, HP LaserJet and  inkjet printers will use 13% less electricity per year than 2011 HP  LaserJet and inkjet printers.9 Thats equivalent to 71,000 tonnes of  GHG	emissions—or	like	taking	14,000	passenger	cars	off	the	road	 for a year.10  The HP LaserJet Pro P1102	is	the	worlds	most	energy-efficient	laser	 printer.11 It also features HP	Auto-On/Auto-Off	Technology, which  turns	your	printer	on	when	you	need	it	and	off	when	you	dont.12 By  the end of 2012, most new HP LaserJet printers and multifunction  printers	will	include	Auto-On/Auto-Off	energy-saving	features.	 HP Managed Print Services (MPS) helps cut costs and conserve  resources. Pre- and post-analysis of HP MPS customers imaging  and printing operations reveals energy savings of up to 80%, and  reductions in paper consumption in the millions of pages.13 Disney  seeks the best solutions to help deliver on its environmental  promise and worked with HP to develop its Document Output  Management Program using HP MPS. Disney reduced the number of  printing devices by 59%. As a result, Disney reported that its energy  consumption for printing dropped by 18% and avoided an esti- mated 185 tonnes of CO2e emissions over 3 years. To learn more,  read the Disney case study. HP Web Jetadmin provides organizations a comprehensive view of  activity	across	their	printing	fleet	and	lets	IT	managers	centrally	 configure	and	manage	devices	across	the	enterprise	to	take	advan- tage of energy-saving features such as automatic sleep and wake  modes. And with the HP EcoSMART Fleet—introduced in 2011— users can collect data and control settings, then create reports to  establish and monitor progress toward environmental goals.  HP	Retail	Publishing	Solutions	offers	HP	MiniLab	and	HP	MicroLab	 inkjet solutions, self-contained systems that provide a less  resource-intensive alternative to traditional photo processing by  eliminating the need for water. If all silver halide systems world- wide were switched to HP Minilab printers, the estimated reduction  in carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions would be equivalent to removing  65,000 passenger vehicles from the road for a year.14 And HP Retail  Publishing	Solutions	is	nearly	three	times	more	energy	efficient	 than traditional silver halide minilabs—amounting to an estimated  cost savings of up to $1,000 USD per machine per year.15 5 HP compared the energy consumption of comparable HP products in 2005 with our latest models for each category of products, including the HP TouchSmart 610 series PCs. Estimations of the energy  consumption of 2005 products were done by using worldwide IDC shipped volumes, HP products, U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys ENERGY STAR program product averages, and the typical energy  consumption (TEC) method. The energy costs are based on U.S. Department of Energy data, and actual results may vary. We used the following products for this analysis: HP Deskjet 3050, HP LaserJet CP1215,  HP LaserJet CP1025, HP Compaq 8200 Elite, HP Compaq 2310, HP Compaq 8000f Elite, HP Compaq LE19 monitor, HP StorageWorks EVA, HP ProBook 6550b, HP G60t Series Notebook, HP TouchSmart610 PC,  HP ProLiant DL380 G4 and G6 servers, and the HP ProLiant DL360 G7 server. 6 PCMark05	performance	benchmark	and	comparison	testing	performed	on	a	similarly	configured	HP	Compaq	8000	Elite	SFF	and	HP	Compaq	8200	Elite	SFF.	Performance	profiles:	PCMark05	done	with	the	as	 shipped	defaults.	Power	benchmark	and	comparison	testing	performed	on	a	similarly	configured	HP	Compaq	dc7900	SFF	and	HP	Compaq	8200	Elite	SFF.	Power	profiles:	power	measurements	were	done	with	 the	as	shipped	defaults.	Power	measurements	for	idle,	off,	and	sleep/standby	were	conducted	per	ENERGY	STAR	guidelines.	Actual	results	may	vary	based	on	system	configuration,	and	performance	will	vary	 over time depending on software installed. 7 HP Power Assistant enhances management of the system energy requirements and enables users to take control of their power consumption for a reduced impact on the environment. Power calculations and  cost	calculations	are	estimates.	Results	will	vary	based	on	variables,	which	include	information	provided	by	the	user,	time	PC	is	in	different	power	states	(on,	standby,	hibernate,	off),	time	PC	is	on	battery	or	AC,	 hardware	configuration,	variable	electricity	rates,	and	utilities	provider.	HP	advises	customers	to	use	information	reported	by	HP	Power	Assistant	for	reference	only	and	to	validate	impact	in	their	environment.	 Environmental calculations were based on U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) eGrid 2007 data found at www.epa.gov/egrid. Regional results will vary. Microsoft Windows required. 8 Efficiency	is	defined	in	terms	of	kilowatt	hours	(using	the	typical	electricity	consumption	method)	divided	by	pages	per	minute.	These	families	represent	more	than	32%	of	inkjet	printers	and	more	than	45%	of	 LaserJet	printers	shipped	in	2005.	HP	updated	this	goal	from	the	goal	included	in	the	FY07	Global	Citizenship	Report,	which	targeted	a	30%	improvement	in	energy	efficiency	by	2010,	relative	to	2005. 9 Baseline	figure	is	2011	HP	LaserJet	and	inkjet	printers	sold	worldwide. 10 U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator. For details, see www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-resources/calculator.html. 11 Energy consumed based on competitive TEC measurement results found at www.energystar.gov, and manufacturers published data sheets for single-function mono and color laser printers as of January  2012.	Individual	product	configuration	and	usage	will	affect	power	consumption. 12 HP	Auto-On	and	Auto-Off	capabilities	subject	to	printer	and	settings. 13 Estimated energy and paper savings based on analysis of select HP Managed Print Services customers imaging and printing operations using data gathered on devices and paper consumption, and comparing  with post-MPS actuals or projections. 14 Claim based on PFN data on worldwide total installed base of approximately 106,416 silver halide minilabs (September 2009). Calculated with the EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator. For details, see  www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-resources/calculator.html. Based on a 2010 life cycle assessment (LCA) performed by Four Elements Consulting and commissioned by HP. The study compared the impact of  using HP ML1000D, HP ML2000D and HP Microlab pm2000e printers with the impact of using Fuji Frontier 370 and Noritsu QSS-3502 printers to produce 450,000 4 x 6-inch photos a year in North America. For  details, see www.hp.com/go/rps. 15 h20338.www2.hp.com/enterprise/downloads/HP%20Retail%20Publishing%20Solutions%20-%20Saving%20Energy.pdf.  46 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Data center services and solutions HP takes a holistic approach to the data center. Our services include  comprehensive networking, storage, and server assessment;  energy-efficiency	evaluation;	and	data	center	design	and	manage- ment.	Were	improving	the	energy	efficiency	of	our	servers	as	well.	 The latest HP ProLiant G7 and Gen8 servers are ENERGY STAR quali- fied,	helping	customers	reduce	energy	consumption,	reclaim	 capacity, and extend the life of the data center. In 2011, with the help of HP Converged Infrastructure, global logis- tics provider UPS replaced a disparate, disconnected collection of  traditional	servers	that	were	difficult	and	costly	to	manage	with	an	 HP Converged Infrastructure solution that moves the companys  mission-critical systems to a virtualized environment with  industry-standard HP ProLiant servers and HP storage arrays,  supported by HP networking solutions. Virtualization has reduced  server count by more than 1,000 physical servers over 2 years, and  reduced energy use by 4.8 million kilowatt hours (kWh). To learn  more, read the full case study. HP Critical Facilities Services (CFS) provides consulting and design  engineering and architecture services, working with clients to eval- uate their needs and help with the planning and implementation of  all aspects of data center infrastructure. One solution is the HP  Flexible Data Center, which uses prefabricated, standardized  components to shorten the time it takes to build and deploy a data  center. In addition to lower capital costs and faster time to market,  HP	Flexible	Data	Center	configurations	improve	the	use	of	power	 and cooling resources to reduce energy and water consumption,  and decrease GHG emissions. The Flexible Data Center can cut  energy costs by nearly 14% and reduce annualized power usage  effectiveness	(PUE)	rating	by	13.2%,	compared	with	a	traditional	 data center.16  Software HP software products can help customers save energy, costs,   and other resources by reducing unnecessary computing and  storage capacity.  With HP Software as a Service (SaaS), HP hosts and operates soft- ware for our customers, sharing the systems on which the software  runs among multiple users and multiple applications. Because  customers are not running software through their data centers,  they	save	power,	cooling,	energy,	and	floor	space.	 SaaS is a component of cloud computing which provides  on-demand	access	to	configurable	shared	resources,	including	soft- ware. The predicted adoption of cloud computing by U.S. businesses  with annual revenues of more than $1 billion USD could save an  estimated 85.7 million tonnes of CO2 emissions by 2020, as a result  of spending 69% of infrastructure, platform, and software budgets  on cloud services.17  HP SaaS can reduce environmental impacts related to software disk  and packaging manufacture, distribution, and shipping, also  resulting	in	greater	operational	efficiency	and	better	resource	 management.	And	by	offering	remote	access	to	software	via	the	 Internet, SaaS expands opportunities for telecommuting and  remote IT support, which can reduce the need for travel. HP Business Service Automation (BSA) is software that customers  use	to	manage	IT	services	and	capacity	to	improve	efficiency	across	 domains and virtual environments. For example, BSA can be used in  conjunction with data center hardware to dynamically adjust  capacity,	switching	off	equipment	when	it	is	not	needed.	Companies	 that have used BSA for storage provisioning report that they have  regained up to 40% of space from existing storage.18  HP Service Health Optimizer is capacity-planning software that  makes recommendations on how to reduce the number of systems  in	an	IT	environment.	It	proposes	configurations	for	the	ideal	size,	 placement, and allocation of virtual machines relative to physical  space. This increased density can decrease the system footprint  space and energy consumption. 16 h20195.www2.hp.com/V2/GetPDF.aspx/4AA2-1533ENW.pdf. 17 2011 Carbon Disclosure Project Study.  18 Dimensional	Research	HP	Customers	Reveal	Real-Life	Benefits	of	IT	Automation	2010. HP POD 240a Data Center In 2011 we announced the HP POD 240a—also known as the   HP EcoPOD—a	self-contained,	modular,	ultraefficient	data	center.	 The HP EcoPOD achieves ten times the information technology (IT)  capacity per square foot, compared with conventional brick-and- mortar data centers. It can be quickly deployed at one-quarter of the  cost of a traditional data center and uses 95% less facilities energy.*  * New	POD	technology	from	HP	offers	95%	greater	energy	efficiency	compared	with	a	traditional	brick- and-mortar data center, based on internal HP testing.  47 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Product reuse  and recycling Highlights in 2011 53 The	number	of	countries	and	territories	where	we	offer	 a hardware reuse program 60 The	number	of	countries	and	territories	where	we	offer	 a hardware and/or cartridge recycling program 3.44 The amount of hardware recovered for reuse and  remarketing (26,700 tonnes) 133,900  tonnes The amount of electronic products and supplies   recovered for recycling (295 million pounds) Reusing an electronic product extends its life and reselling refurbished equipment can  generate additional revenue. But eventually, all IT equipment reaches the end of its useful  life. Recycling programs for electronic equipment can reduce the need for raw materials and  energy to manufacture new products and help ensure that returned electronic equipment is  managed responsibly.  In 2011, HP reached a milestone of responsibly recycling 2 billion pounds of electronic prod- ucts and supplies since 1987—equivalent to the weight of 36 Statue of Liberty monuments.1  HP demonstrates its commitment to environmental sustainability through voluntary and  mandatory programs. HP provides product take-back solutions to our customers, many of  whom require that we manage their returned IT equipment responsibly. We also comply  with relevant regional and local legislation, including the European Union waste electrical  and electronic equipment (WEEE) directive, which requires the collection of discarded elec- tronic equipment for recycling, reuse, or recovery.  We support individual producer responsibility (IPR), and believe that all manufacturers  should share responsibility for managing electronic waste with governments, retailers,   and customers.  We work with a global network of vendors in 67 countries and territories worldwide to  collect, process for resale, and/or recycle returned products. Our hardware product recy- cling and reuse standards, Policy on Export of Electronic Waste to Developing Countries,  and Supplier Code of Conduct align with internationally recognized standards that we  expect our vendors to meet. Audits	and	independent	verification of vendor facilities and  practices help ensure compliance.  million  units 1 Calculation based on weight as reported at www.nps.gov/stli/historyculture/statue-statistics.htm.  48 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment HP employees making an impact:   Ccile Mesmain Ccile Mesmains ability to shape HPs take-back programs in the  Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) region so that they meet  both HP customer needs and local legislative requirements has  been central to the success of these programs. Learn more about  Ccile Mesmain on page 143. Programs We use a global network of vendors in 67 countries and territories to collect, process for resale, and/or recycle returned products.   Our main programs include:  Services overview Scope Developments in 2011 Hardware reuse*  (trade in, return for cash, leasing return, donation**) We resell refurbished products from PCs to data center equipment at the end of  leasing	terms	or	as	part	of	trade-in	agreements.	We	offer	remarketed	equipment	for	 many HP and non-HP products, and follow strict processes set out in our Hardware  reuse standards to protect user data and meet environmental requirements. Available in   53 countries  and territories.  In the United States, we  launched a program allowing  consumers to donate the cash  value of returned items to one  of 15 selected charities  including United Way, World  Vision, and World Wildlife  Fund (WWF). Asset recovery services Customer Return for cash Leasing return Donation** Recycling Outcomes Responsible recycling in 2011 (hardware and cartridges) 133,900 tonnes Materials for other products Energy recovery Disposal (if necessary) Remarket to customer Reuse in 2011 (hardware only) 3.44 million units  Product reuse and recycling options*    * Segments in this graphic are not drawn to scale.  ** The relationship is directly between customer and charity.  49 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Services overview Scope Developments in 2011 Hardware recycling We recycle returned products that are not suitable for reuse. Consumer recycling services vary by country, depending partly on local regulations  and infrastructure. We are cofounders of the European Recycling Platform (ERP),  which provides pan-European take-back and recycling services.  In the United States, our consumer buyback program allows consumers to return IT  equipment of any brand, and check online to see how much money or purchase credit  they could receive in exchange. Even if the product is not eligible for buyback,  consumers can recycle HP and Compaq products at no cost, and other brands for a  small charge. We make appropriate recycling arrangements with commercial customers on a case- by-case basis. Our Hardware recycling standard, Policy on export of electronic waste to developing  countries, and Supplier code of conduct set out strict processes to safeguard the  environment and protect consumer and commercial customers data. Available in  50 countries  and territories.  In 2011, we launched a new  hardware recycling facility in  Kenya (see below). ERP recycled 40,000 tonnes of  electronic equipment on  behalf of HP in 2011.  HP ink and toner cartridge recycling Customers can return used HP ink and LaserJet toner cartridges to authorized retail  and other collection sites through the HP Planet Partners program. In North America,  for example, HP is partnering with Staples to collect used HP ink and LaserJet toner  cartridges.	For	some	products	and	countries	we	also	offer	several	free,	postage-paid	 return options including printable labels, shipping envelopes, collection boxes, and  the option, to order bulk pickup. Learn more. HPs	closed	loop	ink	cartridge	recycling	process	is	the	first	of	its	kind.	Recycled	 plastic from HP ink cartridges is combined with recycled plastic bottle materials to  create new Original HP ink cartridges.  The HP LaserJet cartridge closed loop recycling process uses recycled plastic from  HP LaserJet cartridges to create new Original HP LaserJet cartridges. (See Materials  on page 36 for more information.)  We provide  free recycling  for HP  cartridges in  55 countries  and territories. In 2011, we expanded our  closed loop HP ink cartridge  recycling capability to include  Vietnam (see sidebar below).    * Availability	of	each	reuse	offering	varies	by	location.	  ** The relationship is directly between customer and charity. Available in the United States only. Supporting vendor development  Building capabilities in developing countries We continue to focus on increasing the volume of HP equipment  that	is	reused	or	recycled.	These	efforts	include	expanding	our	 return and recycling programs in developing countries. A challenge  is that capabilities in these counties vary widely and many lack  adequate collection and recycling systems. The bulk of electronic  waste is often collected and treated informally with few or no  controls to safeguard human health and safety and the environ- ment. HP works to improve local capabilities where we are  expanding our programs, and we contract a third party to audit our  first-tier	vendors	and	ensure	they	conform	to	our	high	standards.	 We are working with governments and nongovernmental organiza- tions (NGOs) to improve local recycling capabilities in new markets  including Colombia, Kenya, Mexico, and South Africa. We identify  potential vendors, conduct audits to make sure they meet our stan- dards and policies, and require them to provide plans on how they  can address any gaps in their approach.  Enhanced capacity for recycled plastic in  Vietnam In 2011, we worked with partners to open a new facility in Vietnam,  expanding our closed loop HP ink cartridge recycling program.  The plant is expected to increase the availability of regionally  sourced recycled plastic for use by HP inkjet manufacturing sites in  Asia	Pacific.	(See	Materials on page 36 for more information  about our closed loop ink cartridge recycling process.)  50 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Responsible recycling facilities create employment in disadvan- taged communities while helping to protect workers and the  environment. For example, the East African Computer Recycling  (EACR) facility in Mombasa, Kenya, established in 2011 with our  support, receives end-of-life IT equipment from educational, busi- ness, and public sector customers. We are working with our NGO  partner Camara to encourage the local informal recycling sector to  deliver whole products (rather than pre-separated components) to  EACR to increase value and address possible human and environ- mental impacts at a facility set up for proper handling. In the long  term, we anticipate that the facility will process up to 20% of  Kenyas electronic waste. To avoid illegal dumping of electronic waste, HP does not allow the  export of electronic waste from developed to developing countries  for recycling. We engage with governments, directly and through  trade associations, to help improve national and international legis- lation governing the movement of electronic waste, such as the  Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of  Hazardous Waste and Their Disposal. Watch this video to learn more. Read more about Product reuse and recycling on page 47.  See a list of recycling options by country. Performance In 2011, we recovered 160,600 tonnes of hardware and supplies.  This included: 	Approximately 3.44 million hardware units weighing 26,700  tonnes (58.9 million pounds) for reuse and remarketing, nearly  65% returned by business customers. 	Approximately 133,900 tonnes (295 million pounds) for recycling.  More than 60% of recycling volume by weight was returned by  consumers. Overall, we have recovered a total of 1,231,500 tonnes (2.715  billion pounds) of electronic products (for reuse and recycling) and  supplies (for recycling) since 1987. We achieved a total reuse and recycling rate in 2011 of approxi- mately 15% of relevant HP hardware sales worldwide.  See Product reuse and recycling on page 69 for detailed product  reuse and recycling performance information. Product reuse and recycling, 2007–2011* [tonnes] 0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007    Total reuse of equipment**  29,000 34,000 30,000 30,000 26,700    Total recycling—computer hardware and supplies  combined 113,000 119,000 112,000 121,000 133,900    Total reuse and recycling combined  142,000 153,000 142,000 151,000 160,600   * Recycling totals include all hardware and supplies returned to HP for processing; with ultimate dispositions including recycling, energy recovery, and, where no suitable  alternatives exist, responsible dis posal. Hardware recycling data from Europe, Middle East, and Africa, and HP LaserJet recycling data is calendar year. The remaining data  is	based	on	the	HP	fiscal	year.   ** The decrease in tonnage from 2007–2011 is due to a reduction in the average weight of returned units, rather than a decline in the total number of returned units.  Returned units during that period were: 2007: 2.96 million units; 2008: 3.46 million units; 2009: 3.58 million units; 2010: 3.81 million units; 2011: 3.44 million units.   Tonnage numbers are approximate.  51 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Vendor audits We	have	direct	relationships	with	about	75	first-tier	reuse	and	recy- cling vendors, who in turn manage hundreds of subvendors in their  own networks.  We contract Environmental Resources Management (ERM), a third  party,	to	audit	our	first-tier	vendors	and	ensure	they	conform	to	our	 Hardware recycling and reuse standards covering the storage,  handling, and processing of returned electronic equipment, as well  as our Policy on Export of Electronic Waste to Developing Countries  and Supplier Code of Conduct.  Audits also include an assessment of environmental, health, and  safety practices and performance, as well as checks on downstream  material	flows	based	on	shipment	and	receipt	records.	 When audits identify areas of nonconformance, vendors must  create corrective action plans and respond quickly to improve their  performance. Once we receive a vendors report of corrective  actions	taken,	ERM	conducts	a	verification	audit	to	ensure	that	 adequate changes have been made. Although we prefer to work  with vendors to improve their capabilities, in extreme cases we stop  using vendors who lack transparency or the willingness to make the  required changes. ERMs	audit	training	program	helps	our	first-tier	vendors	under- stand our audit process, how to improve their operational  performance, and how they should audit their own vendors. Our vendor audit program conforms to and exceeds the practices  described in the EPAs Plug-in to eCycling Guidelines for Materials  Management. These guidelines have also been incorporated into  the IEEE 1680.1 optional criteria of EPEAT.  The proposed IEEE 1680.2 criteria for imaging products require the  use	of	recycling	vendors	who	have	obtained	certification	by	a	quali- fied	third-party	auditor	in	the	countries	where	we	offer	 EPEAT-registered products. All HP recycling facilities for imaging  products in Canada, China, Mexico, Singapore, and the United States  meet this requirement. While we support the EPEAT third-party  certification	program	we	will	continue	to	supplement	it	with	our	 own	audits	of	certified	vendors.	ERM	will	also	continue	to	audit	our	 noncertified	vendors. 2011 audits and findings In 2011 ERM audited 14 reuse and 39 recycling vendor facilities in  24 countries.1 Thirty-one of these audits were conducted on site  and the remaining 22 were conducted remotely (by phone and  email). Twelve were repeat site audits that checked for vendors  ongoing commitment and improved performance.  Seven of the 12 re-audited sites had previously experienced major  nonconformances;	ERM	re-audits	confirmed	that	all	major	noncon- formances had been addressed at four of these sites. In the  remaining three cases, vendors had addressed some of the identi- fied	major	nonconformances,	and	HP	vendor	managers	continue	to	 work with them to resolve the others. Most gaps in conformance to HP standards are found in the areas of  environmental, health, and safety, followed by security, logistics,  and asset tracking, and then management systems. Combined,  these three areas accounted for more than 85% of the gaps found  during audits in 2011. We have received and reviewed 122 vendor-generated corrective  action plans following the 177 audits conducted since we enhanced  our vendor audit program in 2008.2  Read a statement from ERM. 1 All initial audits were conducted on-site. Some re-audits were conducted remotely, as appropriate. 2 These	audits	are	used	as	both	qualification	audits	and	existing	vendor	audits.	In	cases	when	the	vendor	did	not	provide	a	corrective	action	plan	or	HP	did	not	request	one,	the	vendors	services	were	not	used.  52 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment HP operations HP owns and leases more than 770 sites in 95 countries worldwide. Our global scale brings  obligations	as	well	as	opportunities	to	benefit	communities	and	the	environment.	We	are	 committed	to	growing	the	positive	economic	influence	of	our	business,	while	finding	new	 ways to reduce its environmental impact. We do this through continual innovation and  improvement in our business processes and operations. Our	most	significant	environmental	impact	from	operations	is	greenhouse	gas	(GHG)	emis- sions	due	to	the	energy	our	offices,	data	centers,	and	manufacturing	facilities	use.	(See	 Energy and GHG emissions on page 53 for detail.) Other environmental impacts from our  operations are those associated with waste disposal, paper use, water consumption, site  remediation, and the use of ozone-depleting substances. Our manufacturing facilities have additional impacts including wastewater discharges, and  permitted releases of toxic substances.  HPs environmental, health, and safety (EHS) management system is designed to ensure  that all our facilities comply with applicable regulations and meet company standards. About our operational data Data	relating	to	HP	operations	is	based	on	our	fiscal	year	(which	ends	October	31). In 2011, we collected data from 315 sites (including all HP-owned manufacturing sites and  our	largest	owned	and	leased	office,	warehouse,	data	center,	and	distribution	sites).	This	 accounted	for	81%	of	our	total	floor	space	of	approximately	7.1	million	square	meters.	We	 extrapolated data as available from comparable operations, primarily data centers and  office	space,	for	the	remaining	floor	space,	unless	stated	otherwise. We	continue	to	refine	the	process	by	which	we	collect	data	and	calculate	trends.	In	2011,	 we began installing Hara energy and sustainability management software to improve our  understanding of our operational impacts, more accurately measure and monitor energy  consumption, and identify areas with the greatest potential for savings. HPs Energy and  Sustainability Management (ESM) group is also involved in this global implementation. The  ESM	group	will	apply	the	insights	and	best	practices	they	gain	to	benefit	other	customers	 undertaking similar deployments. We will report on progress in our 2012 Global  Citizenship Report. See the HP list of major operations on page 65. Highlights 20% Reduction in GHG emissions from operations between  2005 and 2011, meeting our 2013 goal 2 years early 14,700  tonnes Reduction in amount of nonhazardous waste from  2010, a 14.5% decrease 8 billion liters Global water consumption, a 1.4% decrease from 2010  53 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Management and compliance HP is committed to leadership standards in environmental, health,  and safety (EHS) performance, including conducting our operations in  an environmentally responsible manner and enabling our employees  to work without injury at our facilities and other locations.  Our EHS Management System helps us achieve these objectives and  ensures that we comply with regulations and meet company stan- dards across all HP facilities. At its core is our EHS policy. HP	manufacturing	operations	worldwide	are	certified	to	ISO 14001,  the international standard for environmental management systems.  To help ensure that we continue to meet our EHS objectives as we  grow, newly acquired companies must implement our EHS manage- ment system as a part of their integration.  We investigate any allegations of noncompliance with the law to  correct any noncompliance, determine the root causes and, if appli- cable, implement corrective action to help prevent recurrence. Our management of health and safety, and also wellness, are  covered in the HP people section of this report. Environmental risk assessment HPs Enterprise Risk Management program evaluates a broad range  of risks at the enterprise, business, and functional levels. This  enables us to identify critical risks and target mitigation programs  at the appropriate level within the company. In 2011 we conducted a targeted assessment of risks such as regu- latory changes, physical changes, energy costs, and water  availability for our 26 most critical operations. This assessment  showed that we have in place measures to help mitigate these  risks, such as energy purchase programs, capital equipment  upgrades, and regulation monitoring. We also have implemented  numerous energy and water conservation programs and projects  that help meet the common objectives of cost reduction, goal  attainment, and risk management.  While we anticipate that our operations will become increasingly  subject to regulatory and cost challenges related to climate change  and water scarcity, we do not believe these changes will dispropor- tionately	affect	HP	relative	to	the	market. Energy and GHG emissions HP	is	committed	to	making	our	global	operations	more	energy	effi- cient, using low-carbon energy sources where possible, and  reducing employees business travel. These activities, in turn, help  reduce our climate impact.  Our goal is to cut absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from  our operations (not including employee travel) to 20% below 2005  levels by 2013. We met this goal 2 years early. In 2011, GHG emis- sions from our operations equaled 1,856,500 tonnes of carbon  dioxide equivalent (CO2e), a small decrease from 1,865,100 tonnes  of CO2e in 2010 and a 20% reduction from our 2005 baseline. We  adjust our baseline to account for acquisitions and divestitures.  By the end of 2012, we intend to create a new goal for reduction of  GHG emissions from operations. We also plan to reset our GHG  emissions baseline, based on enhanced data available through new  energy and environmental management software.  In 2011 we started recording our GHG emissions intensity to  measure our performance relative to business growth. Using this  metric, GHG emissions per $ million USD of net revenue dropped   2% from 2010 to 2011, and decreased 20% compared with 2005.   54 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Greenhouse gas emissions from operations, 2008–2011* [tonnes CO2e] 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 2011 2010 2009 2008 0 4 8 12 16 20    Americas 1,327,400 1,241,500 1,179,900 1,162,700   Europe, Middle East, and Africa 338,800 356,600 253,800 208,500  		Asia	Pacific	and	Japan 499,300 462,200 431,400 485,300      Total 2,165,500 2,060,300 1,865,100 1,856,500     GHG emissions intensity** [tonnes CO2e/  $ million USD of net revenue] 19.90 19.31 15.95 15.71   * Total	includes	Scope	1	and	Scope	2	emissions	in	table,	except	emissions	from	HP	auto	fleet	and	HP	air	fleet.  ** Worldwide	GHG	emissions	do	not	include	employee	travel.	Historical	emissions	intensity	values	were	calculated	using	HPs	annual	revenue	as	characterized	in	financial	 reporting	and	GHG	emissions	from	facilities,	the	HP	auto	fleet,	and	the	HP	air	fleet	as	reported	for	that	year	in	the	HP	Global	Citizenship	Report	(i.e.,	historical	values	were	 not adjusted for corporate acquisitions per the GHG Protocol). Our baseline emissions in 2005 without adjustments for corporate acquisitions (such as Enterprise Data  Services in 2008) was 1,551,300 tonnes of CO2e. Though our intensity value increased due to the acquisition of Enterprise Data Services in 2008, we have implemented a  variety	of	energy-efficiency	measures	and	made	purchases	of	renewable	energy	that	have	subsequently	decreased	this	number. Sources of GHG emissions from  operations Energy use (see Energy	efficiency	on	page	55) accounts for 97%  of the GHG emissions generated by our operations and represents  one of the largest costs of operating our facilities. The remaining 3% comes from refrigeration equipment, the   use of diesel for backup generators, and a small number of HP  manufacturing processes. This includes emissions from the use   of	perfluorocarbons	(PFCs)	for	semiconductor	manufacturing	  (see sidebar at right).  We	commission	independent	auditor	Bureau	Veritas	Certification	to	 verify our global GHG emissions across our global facilities and our  annual reporting under the GHG measurement and reporting  protocols of the World Resources Institute and World Economic  Forum.	Verification	of	HPs	2011	data	will	occur	after	the	publica- tion of this report. Perfluorocompounds (PFCs) In 2010 we fully met and concluded our commitment under the U.S.  Environmental Protection Agency—Semiconductor Industry  Association (SIA) PFC Emission Reduction Partnership, having  reduced PFC-related GHG emissions by 87% since 1995, and greatly  surpassing the voluntary partnership goal of 10% reduction.  In 2011 we decided to use a more conservative emissions factor to  ensure we do not underestimate our PFC-related emissions. This  led to larger calculated emissions in 2011 even though our PFC  usage continued to drop. Total PFC-related GHG emissions are still  less than 0.5% of our total GHG emissions from HP operations. The small quantities of PFCs now emitted are projected to remain   at this level for the foreseeable future. See the breakdown in Data  dashboard: environment on page 69.  55 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Sources of GHG emissions from HP operations, 2011* Electricity (Scope 2)** 93% Natural gas (Scope 1) 4%  Refrigerant emissions (Scope 1) 2%  Diesel (Scope 1) <1% Manufacturing emissions (Scope 1) <1%   * Numbers do not equal 100% due to rounding.  ** Takes into account electricity generated from renewable energy. About our GHG emissions data We calculate our GHG emissions according to the GHG Protocol of  the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the  World Resources Institute. In this section, we report HPs Scope 1, 2,  and 3 GHG emissions1 arising from HPs operations, automotive and  air	fleets,	and	employee	business	travel. 	Scope 1 emissions include those from the direct use of natural  gas, diesel fuel, refrigerants, and PFCs in operations, and from  fuel	used	by	HPs	automotive	and	air	fleets. 	Scope 2 emissions are from purchased electricity. 	Scope 3 emissions in our operations result from employee busi- ness travel by commercial airlines and rental cars. In other  sections of this report, we also disclose estimated Scope 3 emis- sions from product manufacturing by suppliers, product transport,  and product recycling	(which	has	a	net	GHG	emissions	benefit). See Data dashboard: environment on page 69 to view HPs GHG  emissions grouped by Scope. We report our GHG emissions yearly through the Carbon Disclosure  Project (CDP) and in 2011 we were included in the CDPs S&P 500  Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index. The Index highlights constit- uent companies within the S&P 500 Index based on the level and  quality of their climate change information disclosure practices. Energy efficiency Improving	the	energy	efficiency	of	HPs	operations	is	a	fundamental	 part of our strategy for reducing our energy costs and greenhouse  gas (GHG) emissions.  HP operations consumed 4,122 million kilowatt hours (kWh) of  energy in 2011, a small decrease from 4,140 million kWh in 2010.  We saw an 11% decrease in natural gas use and a 1% increase in  electricity use compared with 2010.  In 2011 we started reporting our energy intensity to measure our  performance relative to business growth. Using this metric, energy  use per $ million USD of net revenue dropped 1% from 2010 to  2011, and decreased 13% compared with 2005. We regularly implement projects to decrease energy use across the  company. Initiatives include consolidating our facilities into fewer,  more	efficient	sites,	and	installing	energy-efficient	technology	and	 lighting	in	offices,	research	labs,	and	data	centers.	 Making data centers more efficient  We operate more than 100 client-serving (or trade) data centers  worldwide, in addition to our six internal data centers located in  three cities in the United States. Growing customer demand for data  services managed by our trade data centers makes building, retro- fitting,	and	operating	highly	energy-efficient	data	centers	and	 consolidating existing facilities all the more important, as typical  data centers consume 20 to 40 times as much energy per square  meter	as	offices. 1 The	World	Resources	Institute	(WRI)	defines	Scope	1,	2,	and	3	GHG	emissions	in	its	Greenhouse	Gas	Protocol;	see	www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/faq.  56 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment All design teams for new data centers include an individual respon- sible	for	ensuring	that	energy-efficiency	measures	are	considered	 throughout the design and build process. HP Enterprise Services,  HP Global Real Estate, and HP Critical Facilities Services have estab- lished design criteria for new data centers, including the use of  modular designs to accommodate future growth and the ability to  adapt to local climatic conditions to take advantage of the use of  ambient air for cooling. Learn more in Design on page 34. During	2011,	we	completed	energy-efficiency	initiatives	at	our	data	 centers that we project will save approximately 13 million kWh and  avoid an estimated 7,200 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e)  emissions on an annual basis. Initiatives included improvement of  floor	and	ceiling	ventilation,	replacement	of	existing	cooling	and	air	 conditioning	systems	with	more	efficient	models	or	alternatives,	and	 redesign of server rack layouts for better temperature regulation.  Our award-winning Wynyard trade data center in the United  Kingdom, which opened in January 2010, is powered by 100%  renewable	energy	and	is	one	of	the	most	efficient	general	purpose	 data centers in the world. It is cooled using ambient air nearly year- round, and features technology to humidify and recirculate air as  necessary to maintain constant conditions, white walls to reduce  the	amount	of	lighting	needed,	and	a	reflective	roof	to	reduce	heat	 absorption.	Wynard	has	a	power	usage	effectiveness	(PUE)2 rating  of 1.2, 40% better than the industry average (1.0 is the best  possible rating). In 2011, the center received a Silver Award in the  Best	Green	Energy	Efficiency	Initiative	category	at	the	International  Green Awards. Other	examples	of	energy-efficiency	initiatives	include:	 	HPs new Streetsville data center in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada,  will	be	the	first	data	center	in	our	portfolio	to	use	a	Kyoto	Wheel	 heat exchanger for its primary cooling. The technology reduces  the need for mechanical cooling by transferring heat to the  outside air stream through a heat wheel heat exchanger. The  separation	of	the	outside	air	stream	also	significantly	reduces	the	 potential for contamination of the server room while maintaining  humidity levels. We estimate the technology will save HP up to  $24 million USD over 20 years subsequent to completion of  construction in 2012. 	A new server room completed in 2011 at our Boise, Idaho, United  States, campus is expected to save an estimated 4 million kWh per  year due to extensive use of ambient air and water for cooling. We  estimate that the new cooling system will cut the use of tradi- tional chilling units by more than 90%.  2 Power	usage	effectiveness	is	the	accepted	measure	of	data	center	energy	efficiency. HP employees making an impact:   David Fuqua David Fuqua leads a team dedicated to conserving energy in HPs  trade data centers. Their completed initiatives in 2011 will save HP  13 million kWh a year. Learn more about David Fuqua on page 138. Energy use from operations, 2008–2011 [million kWh] 0 8 16 24 32 40 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 2008 2009 2010 2011   Natural gas 469 399 435 389    Electricity*  3,972 3,849 3,705 3,733       Total 4,441 4,248 4,140 4,122    Energy intensity [thousand kWh/$ million USD   of net revenue] 37.52 37.08 32.85 32.40  * Includes purchased electricity as well as electricity generated on site.  57 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment 	In 2010 we began construction of a new data center in Sydney,  Australia, that is expected to have a PUE rating of 1.3, in part due  to an innovative roof-mounted indirect evaporative cooling  system. We anticipate that the data center, which replaces four  older	facilities,	will	reduce	energy	use	significantly.	 	Variable frequency drives installed on existing air conditioning  units at data centers in Austin and Houston, Texas, United States,  completed in 2012, will save approximately 10 million kWh a year. Our six internal data centers are expandable to more than double  their existing area, enabling us to accommodate substantial future  growth. Each is built with the environment in mind, and our data  center in Hockley, near Houston, has obtained the LEED Gold  sustainable	building	certification.	See	Sustainable building design  on page 63.  HP employees making an impact:   Tom Barrington Tom Barrington spends his days looking for ways to cut energy and  water use across HPs global facilities—and recently helped HP  reach a key milestone in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Learn  more about Tom Barrington on page 136. Data center consolidation Data center consolidation helps us reduce costs, phase out older  technologies, and improve service levels, while decreasing energy  use and associated GHG emissions. In late 2011, HP Enterprise Services continued its multiyear plan to  reduce the number of internal and customer-facing data centers it  operates worldwide, and to make existing data centers more  energy	efficient.	 During	2011,	we	reduced	our	data	center	and	computer	lab	floor	 space by close to 48,000 square meters, while maintaining our  presence in all the worlds major regions and our ability to support  customers worldwide. Through these changes, including decom- missioning servers and switching some physical servers to virtual  ones, we estimate that we will avoid about 170 million kWh of  energy use and nearly 90,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions on an  annualized basis. Renewable energy Switching to renewable energy sources supports HPs goal to  reduce absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, although our  priority remains cutting total energy use by making our operations  more	efficient. We purchased approximately 440 million kilowatt hours (kWh) of  renewable energy worldwide in 2011, equivalent to more than 10%  of the overall electricity use in our facilities and a 41% increase since  2010. This includes energy generated on-site and the renewable  energy credits (RECs) we buy as part of electricity contracts in the  United States. This is in addition to the renewable energy available  by default in the power grid, and achieves our goal for 20121 ahead  of time. We are committed to maintaining renewables as a part of our  energy mix to make continued progress in emissions reductions. The following table highlights some renewable energy initiatives  from 2011. Region Initiative Americas  We installed more than 1,400 roof-top solar  panels at our data center in Suwanee, Georgia,  United States, which we estimate will generate  approximately 450,000 kWh per year, enough to  power the centers noncritical facilities.   Europe,  Middle East,  and Africa We estimate that nearly 500 solar panels  installed at HPs facilities in Bad Homburg and  Bblingen, Germany, will generate approxi- mately 170,000 kWh of electricity per year.  See more details about renewable energy purchasing in Data  dashboard: environment on page 69.  1 Goal for 2012: Double voluntary purchases of renewable energy to 8% of electricity use (in addition to the renewable energy available by default in the power grid).  58 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Travel Many HP employees travel as part of their work. In 2011, employee  business travel generated 461,600 tonnes of carbon dioxide equiv- alent (CO2e), a 3% increase from 2010. Emissions per employee  decreased 4% over the same period, and have decreased by 51%  since 2007. The majority of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from  business travel are from commercial air travel (70%), followed by  use	of	the	HP	auto	fleet	(27%)	by	our	mobile	sales	force,	and	the	HP	 air	fleet	(3%).	 We	work	to	reduce	these	emissions	by	promoting	more	efficient	 forms of transport such as smaller cars and rail travel instead of air,  and encourage digital collaboration alternatives that avoid travel  altogether. When employees book travel, we provide them with  information about the emissions associated with their journey so  that when multiple options are available, they can choose the one  with the least environmental impact. HPs travel booking system  advises employees on alternatives to nonessential travel such as  Halo videoconferencing technology.1 In 2011, employee use of Halo  studios at HP facilities avoided an estimated 27,500 tonnes of CO2e  emissions from air and car travel that would have been generated  had the meetings taken place in person.2 See Environmental  sustainability on page 19.  In 2011 we joined the Clinton Global Initiatives Fleets for Change  and	committed	to	reduce	GHG	emissions	from	our	U.S.	auto	fleet	by	 10% by 2015, compared with 2010 on a per unit basis. We will work  with	Fleets	for	Change	to	refine	our	baseline	emissions	calculations	 and measure progress towards this goal by replacing high fuel  consumption vehicles, reducing the distance traveled by employees,  and encouraging lower emission practices.  We also launched an initiative in 2011 with Avis to reduce our U.S.  rental car fuel consumption and related GHG emissions, with a  targeted decrease of 15% per day driven by 2012, compared with  2011. Under the initiative, Avis will provide hybrid and other fuel- efficient	vehicles	certified	by	the	U.S.	Environmental	Protection	 Agencys SmartWay program. We estimate the savings will cut fuel  costs by $1 million USD.  See detailed travel data in Data dashboard: environment on  page 69. GHG emissions from employee business travel, 2007–2011 [tonnes CO2e] 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total emissions  464,400 510,500 365,800 448,800 461,600 Commercial air travel  289,000 320,000 214,000 304,000 322,000 HP	air	fleet	 14,300 21,600 13,400 12,500 13,200 HP	auto	fleet	 161,100 168,900 138,400 132,300 126,400 Emissions per employee* 2.70 1.59 1.20 1.38 1.32  * Based on employee numbers as reported in past Global Citizenship Reports.  1 HP divested its HP Visual Collaboration business, including Halo, to Polycom, Inc., in July 2011, but continues to provide these functionalities at our facilities.  2 For	air	travel	avoidance,	an	average	of	1,609	miles	each	way	per	round	trip	(average	of	short-,	medium-,	and	long-haul	flights	at	HP),	and	a	carbon	dioxide	(CO2) footprint per mile of 199g CO2e is used. Car  travel to/from airport on both ends is also considered. Of the 35% of meetings that avoid travel, only 1.4 persons are assumed to avoid travel in each meeting. Usage depends on a companys travel and meet- ing policies.  59 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Employee commuting  Although GHG emissions from employee commuting are not directly  within	HPs	control,	we	offer	programs	that	encourage	employees	 to reduce them. In the United States, HP enables employees to take advantage of  WageWorks and use pretax income to pay for public transport costs.  Carpooling options, such as our partnership with rideshare.org in the  San Francisco Bay Area, are supported at U.S. locations and at other  facilities around the world. Sites in various locations provide free  shuttles from local public transportation. We also support sustainable forms of transport such as cycling. At  our Bristol site in the United Kingdom, for example, the local  employee-led HP Sustainability Network chapter established a  bicycle users group (BUG) that provides information, safe routes  and maps, bike storage and loan facilities, discounts on bikes and  equipment, and even a store where employees can buy or borrow  equipment. Of the 900 people at the site, 180 are BUG members.  Similar programs are available at numerous HP locations globally.  Many	HP	employees	work	outside	the	traditional	office—at	home,	at	 customer	facilities,	or	at	shared	offices	where	people	are	free	to	use	 any available desk—and often divide their work time between these  locations.	Giving	employees	flexibility	on	where	they	work	reduces	 commutes	to	the	office	and	can	improve	efficiency	and	work-life	 balance. When appropriate, we also encourage employees to travel  to work at times that avoid peak commuting periods, thereby  reducing their traveling time, associated stress, and GHG emissions.  Waste and recycling In 2011, HP generated approximately 93,800 tonnes of waste. The  vast majority, 92%, was nonhazardous consisting of solid waste  such as paper, pallets, metals, and packaging. Our hazardous waste1  consists mainly of liquid waste from our ink manufacturing facilities  and batteries from our data centers.  These	two	types	of	waste	require	different	approaches,	but	we	aim	 to reduce the environmental impact of both through a policy of  reduce, reuse, and recycle. We recycle 82.2% of nonhazardous waste and aim to minimize the  amount	sent	to	landfill.	 We reuse electronic equipment when appropriate, and otherwise  we recycle it responsibly through the same programs that we make  available to our customers.  We help ensure that hazardous waste is managed in an environ- mentally responsible manner though a combination of contractual  commitments with, and internal and external audits of, waste  disposal facilities and service providers who handle the waste on  our behalf. These are carried out as part of the approval process for  all new facilities and periodically for approved facilities. Nonhazardous waste  HP generated approximately 86,400 tonnes of nonhazardous waste  in 2011, a 14.5% decrease compared with 2010.2 This was due to  ongoing programs to reduce waste at the source as well as the elim- ination of some operations that generated high volumes of material. In 2011, we reused, recycled, or incinerated for energy 71,000  tonnes	of	nonhazardous	waste,	achieving	a	landfill	diversion	rate	of	 82.2%. This decrease from 84.9% in 2010 was due to the closure of  some operations that had high diversion rates, including distribu- tion and product completion facilities. Nonetheless, HPs total  waste volume was down year over year, and the amount sent to  landfill	in	2011	remained	roughly	the	same	as	in	2010,	due	to	 successful	overall	waste	reduction	efforts. About one-third of nonhazardous waste generated in 2011 was  paper. We are committed to reducing the amount of paper we use,  and dispose of, to help decrease our environmental impact and save  money.	Read	about	our	efforts	to	reduce	paper use and purchase  paper from sustainable sources. 1 Hazardous	waste	classification	varies	by	country.	For	ease	of	calculation,	HP	data	includes	some	waste	not	considered	hazardous	in	the	country	where	it	is	generated. 2 We have restated our 2010 nonhazardous waste data (from 79,800 tonnes as reported in the HP 2010 Global Citizenship Report) to ensure greater consistency with the methodology that we use to calculate  other environmental data, including nonhazardous waste in prior years.   60 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Recycling programs     Our global recycling programs play a key role in supporting our  efforts	to	reduce	the	amount	of	waste	sent	to	landfill.				 HP employees can recycle paper, plastics, and batteries at conve- nient recycling points within many of our buildings. We also recycle  glass, plastic, and aluminum containers disposed of in our dining  rooms and conference facilities. Individual sites often organize  expanded recycling programs. At our Surya and Suhas Park facili- ties in Bangalore, India, for example, waste wood and paper is  recycled to make stationery, batteries and waste oils are sent to  locally approved recycling vendors, and obsolete electronic equip- ment is processed through an HP-approved vendor.  Hazardous waste HP generated approximately 7,400 tonnes of hazardous waste in  2011, a 12% decrease compared with 2010. This is due to ongoing  waste reduction programs at our manufacturing sites and fewer  battery replacements at our data centers in 2011. Nonhazardous waste composition, 2011* [percentage of total] Nonhazardous waste, 2007–2011* [tonnes] 0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 100,000 120,000 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007    Americas 52,900 54,200 86,200  59,100  50,100   Europe, Middle East, and Africa 20,100 17,200 18,200  21,100  17,000 		Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 16,200 20,400 13,300  20,800  19,300      Total 89,300 91,800 117,700 101,100 86,400  * We have restated our 2010 nonhazardous waste data (from 79,800 tonnes as reported in the HP 2010 Global Citizenship Report) to ensure greater consistency with the   methodology that we use to calculate other environmental data, including nonhazardous waste in prior years. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding.    Recycled 		Landfill 17.8% Paper 32.2%   Incineration 6.8% Pallets 12.5%   Reused Electronic equipment 5.5% Pallets 3.1% Packaging materials 4.5% Packaging materials 0.7% Metals 2.3% Other 1.1% Other 13.4%  * Segments do not equal 100% due to rounding.  61 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Water  In 2011, HP used just over 8 billion liters of water worldwide,  predominantly for domestic use in buildings, cooling, and landscape  irrigation. This represents a 1.4% decrease compared with 2010. Although HPs operations are not water intensive, we recognize that  freshwater consumption is a growing concern globally. We partici- pate in the Carbon Disclosure Projects Water Disclosure Project to  enhance our understanding of the issue and help provide a clearer  picture of our corporate water use.   Some of our operations are located in water-stressed regions,  making the availability and quality of freshwater an issue for our  business, customers, and communities.  In 2011, HP developed a new water-use goal following an extensive  analysis of our facilities water impact. Our analysis took into  account the availability of freshwater where a facility is located as  well	as	the	facilitys	usage,	reflecting	the	fact	that	the	impacts	of	 water use are felt locally, not globally. We based our analysis on the  Global Water Tool developed by the World Business Council for  Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and data produced by the  University of New Hampshire.  We plan to implement water-saving measures at all facilities that  both	of	these	sources	identified	as	water	stressed,	as	well	as	some	 sites	identified	by	only	one	of	the	sources.	In	total,	we	plan	to	intro- duce	35	measures	in	10	countries	by	2015.	Examples	include	flow	 restrictors, waterless urinals, and rainwater harvesting. We expect  these measures to reduce freshwater use across those sites by 77.7  million liters, equivalent to 3% of 2011 consumption at those loca- tions.1	Large	reductions	may	not	be	possible	at	all	the	sites	identified,	 as	many	have	already	made	considerable	savings	or	are	office-based	 locations with limited options for decreasing water use. HP	recognizes	that	our	supply	chain	also	has	a	significant	amount	 of water usage, so in the coming years we will be working to under- stand the issue and identify possible actions to reduce our total  water footprint. Hazardous waste, 2007–2011* [tonnes] 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007    Americas 2,360 3,380 2,470 3,600 3,030   Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,590 2,080 2,210 2,570 2,560 		Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 4,880 5,020 2,620 2,260 1,810      Total 8,830 10,500 7,300 8,430 7,400  * 2009 and 2010 data for the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region, and the global totals for those years, were restated to correct reporting errors in the 2009 and 2010  Global Citizenship Reports. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. 1 Based on http://water.epa.gov/learn/kids/drinkingwater/water_trivia_facts.cfm.  62 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Many facilities, including those in water-stressed regions, are taking  steps to cut water use or use alternatives to freshwater sources.  Since 2007, HPs facilities in Singapore have been using New Water  to reduce demand on freshwater. New Water is treated wastewater  purified	using	microfiltration,	reverse	osmosis,	and	ultraviolet	treat- ment, as well as conventional treatment processes. The water is  potable but is mostly used by industries requiring high purity water. New Water accounts for more than two-thirds of the facilities annual  water consumption and is 20% cheaper than standard potable water,  helping us to save more than $3.5 million USD since 2007. Wastewater Wastewater	from	our	manufacturing	operations	is	not	a	significant	 environmental	issue	for	HP.	Office	wastewater	is	discharged	under	 local regulations to local treatment facilities.  In 2011, our seven imaging and printing product manufacturing  facilities generated 1.296 billion liters of manufacturing waste- water.	These	effluents	are	discharged	under	a	permit,	and	treated	 at a locally owned and operated treatment plant. We have proce- dures in place designed to prevent unauthorized discharges of  chemicals to wastewater systems, and ensure we do not  discharge wastewater directly from HP operations to surface  water or groundwater. See performance data, including regional breakdown, in Data   dashboard: environment on page 69.  In using the Global Water Tool to prioritize  water-saving measures at its facilities  worldwide, HP has taken appropriate  initial steps towards implementing a risk- based water management strategy. It is  also reassuring that HP is using the tool   to evaluate water risk in its supply chain.  HPs	efforts	should	be	evaluated	in	terms	 of its success in reducing the companys  exposure to water risk, and improving  water security for all users in the regions  where it operates. —Charlie Iceland, Senior Associate, World Resources Institute Water consumption, 2007–2011* [million liters] 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007    Americas 4,518 4,297 4,615 4,707 4,395   Europe, Middle East, and Africa 713 831 1,001 1,124 1,192 		Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 2,128 2,096 2,031 2,324 2,454      Total 7,359 7,225 7,647 8,155 8,041  * 2010	water	consumption	data	is	revised	to	reflect	updates	to	reported	data.	Some	segments	do	not	add	up	to	total	due	to	rounding.  63 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Sustainable building design In 2011 HP completed its 3-year Global Workplace Initiative that  aimed to cut costs, energy use, and water consumption by reducing  the amount of space we occupy. We continue to reduce the environ- mental	footprint	of	our	real	estate	by	using	our	offices	more	 efficiently	and	improving	the	design	of	new	and	existing	buildings.	 For example: 	We	consolidated	five	buildings	into	one	at	Ojima,	Japan.	The	new	 facility employs sustainable design features such as increased use  of natural ventilation and lighting, wastewater and rain water  recycling,	water-efficient	landscaping,	and	recycled	and	locally	 sourced building materials.  	Energy-efficient	LED	lighting	at	several	facilities	in	India	and	 Singapore will contribute to estimated savings of more than   2 million kilowatt hours (kWh) in electricity usage annually. As well as saving energy, features such as increased use of natural  light help to create comfortable and productive workplaces and  can	help	improve	our	facilities	appearance.	Consolidating	office	 space	has	the	additional	benefit	of	freeing	up	office	buildings	for	 potential	use	by	other	organizations,	so	overall,	fewer	offices	need	 to be constructed. Our custom sustainable building design checklist provides guid- ance	for	project	managers	when	planning	office	improvements.	It	 covers a wide range of sustainable design features, such as  energy	use,	materials,	waste	management,	and	water	efficiency,	 and	helps	identify	cost-effective	solutions	for	each	area.	A	score- card completed at the end of each project notes the buildings  performance against the checklist and helps identify areas for  further enhancement.  In some cases, we apply for U.S. Green Building Council LEED certi- fication.	In	2011,	three	HP	facilities	were	certified	by	LEED,	including	 our Hockley data center in Texas, United States, and our Finnish  headquarters	at	Espoo,	both	of	which	achieved	Gold-level	certifica- tion.	This	brings	the	total	number	of	HP	LEED	certified	facilities	to	 four.	Three	additional	facilities	are	due	to	achieve	LEED	certification	 in	2012,	including	those	in	Kiryat	Gat	(Certified)	in	Israel,	Palo	Alto	 (Platinum) and Sunnyvale (Gold) in California, United States. Toxics release inventory Five HP operations worldwide that are responsible for the manufac- ture of imaging and printing products require the use of several  chemicals listed on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)  Toxics Release Inventory (TRI). Together, those sites account for all  of HPs reportable TRI releases. These releases continue to  decrease as we eliminate or scale down the HP processes that use  those chemicals due to changes in our business operations. Sustainable building design progress summary   (Percentage of 27 projects tracked addressing each scorecard  element through 2011) 64% Planning for conservation Sustainable sites Water  eciency Energy and atmosphere Indoor environment Material resources Waste  management Innovation and  design process 44% 57% 51% 55% 79% 81% 68%  64 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Disposition by type of TRI material, 2008–2010 [tonnes]*   Chemical Emitted to air Discharged to water   (to	sewer/off-site	  treatment facility) Shipped off-site for   recycle/energy recovery Shipped off-site for   treatment or disposal Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 N-methyl  pyrrol- idone 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 451.5 357.6 268.1 259.5 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 451.5 357.6 268.1 259.5 Nitric  acid 0.5 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 9.6  0.0  0.0  0.0 21.9  5.9  11.3  4.8 31.9  6.4  11.4  4.8 Nitrates 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 12.3  9.3  6.1  6.9 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0 12.4  9.3  6.1  6.9 Lead 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 7.1  8.3  0.9  0.9 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 7.1  8.3  0.9  0.9 Xylene  5.3  6.5  7.2  8.9 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 11.9  12.7  14.0  17.4 17.2  19.3  21.2  26.3 Glycol  ethers**  NA  9.4  18.8  9.3 NA  0.0  0.0  0.0 NA  0.0  0.0  0.0 NA  41.8  80.8  26.9 NA  51.2  99.6  36.3 All others  0.1  0.2  0.0  0.0 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 0.6  0.0  0.0  0.0 0.7  0.2  0.0  0.0 Total  5.8  16.7  26.1  18.3 12.3  9.3  6.1  6.9 468.1 365.8 269.0 260.5 34.5  60.5 106.1  49.1 520.8 452.0 407.3 334.8   * The substances with global totals greater than 1 tonne are shown. TRI reports are due to the U.S. EPA July 1 each year, so the most recently completed reporting year is 2010.   ** Glycol	ether	data	for	2009	have	been	restated	to	correct	a	unit	conversion	error.	Totals	for	2009	reflect	the	corrected	data. Ozone-depleting substances HP facilities use ozone-depleting substances (ODSs) in cooling and  air conditioning systems. Although these systems are sealed, leaks  during operation and maintenance could result in emissions. We  continue	to	replace	chlorofluorocarbons	(CFCs)	in	our	systems	with	 hydrofluorocarbons	(HFCs).	Although	HFCs	are	greenhouse	gases,	 they do not deplete the ozone layer. We are also starting to replace  HFC-based cooling systems with HFC-free equivalents when they  reach the end of their operational lives. These are not ODSs and  have no or very low global warming potential. We do not measure ODS emissions but rather estimate leakage using  guidance from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.1  See performance data, including regional breakdown, in Data  dashboard: environment on page 69. 1 To estimate these emissions, HP uses EPA Climate Leaders Greenhouse Gas Inventory Protocol Core Module Guidance May 2008, in conjunction with global warming potential values from www.ipcc.ch/publica- tions_and_data/ar4/wg1/en/ch2s2-10-2.html.  65 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Remediation Where needed, HP conducts or contributes to soil and groundwater  remediation to clean up contaminated sites. This includes remediation at: 	Eighteen sites where chemical releases from historical HP or  predecessor operations occurred 	Six sites where HPs wastes were managed by third parties and  releases occurred We apply the risk prevention and management procedures of our  environmental, health, and safety (EHS) management system to  help prevent and respond to chemical spills at HP facilities. One spill  at an HP facility occurred in 2011 that required soil remediation on  HP property. We reported the incident promptly to the local envi- ronmental authority and initiated clean-up under its oversight. Biodiversity HPs direct operational impact on biodiversity is minimal because  we build very few facilities relative to our size and growth. When we  do build, we often use previously developed land, which reduces  our expansion into undeveloped areas. However, we have an indirect impact on biodiversity through  forestry	because	we	sell	and	use	significant	amounts	of	paper.	Our	 Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy sets out our standards for  buying, selling, and using paper and paper-based packaging. We  increasingly source paper from suppliers that demonstrate sustain- able forestry and responsible manufacturing practices, and we  strive to reduce the amount of paper we use in our operations and  recycle paper when possible. Read more about paper use at HP. HP list of major operations More than 100,000 square meters Americas Boise, ID* United States Colorado Springs, CO United States Corvallis, OR* United States Cupertino, CA United States  Houston, TX* United States  Palo Alto, CA United States  Plano, TX United States Roseville, CA United States  San Bernardino, CA Europe, Middle East, and Africa Dublin Mfg* Ireland   * Site/operation	included	in	HPs	global	ISO	14001	certificate.	In	some	cases,	multiple	locations	in	 close	proximity	are	considered	one	site	for	the	purposes	of	the	certification. 50,000–100,000 square meters  Americas   Aguadilla, PR*  Puerto Rico  Ft. Collins, CO  United States  Ft. Worth, TX  United States  Marlborough, MA  United States  Pontiac, MI  United States  San Diego, CA* United States  Sandston, VA United States  Sandston, VA United States  Woodland, CA United States   66 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment 50,000–100,000 square meters  Asia Pacific and Japan Bangalore India  Bangalore HPGS India  Singapore DRD*,*** Singapore  Singapore SGP Singapore  Europe, Middle East, and Africa   Grenoble France  Bblingen Germany  Erskine**,*** United Kingdom    * Site/operation	included	in	HPs	global	ISO	14001	certificate.	In	some	cases,	multiple	locations	in	 close	proximity	are	considered	one	site	for	the	purposes	of	the	certification.  ** ISO	14001	certified	but	not	part	of	the	global	certificate.  *** OHSAS	18001	certified	site.	 25,001–50,000 square meters  Americas   Sao Bernardo do Campo Brazil  Markham Canada Mississauga Canada  Mississauga—Canadian HQ Canada  Heredia Costa Rica  Guadalajara Mexico  Alpharetta, GA United States  Andover, MA United States  Auburn Hills, MI United States Austin, TX  United States  Des Moines, IA United States  Herndon, VA United States  Hockley, TX United States  Houston, TX United States  Indianapolis, IN United States  25,001–50,000 square meters  Irving, TX United States  LaVergne, TN United States  Louisville, CO  United States  Mountain View, CA United States  Salt Lake City, UT United States  Satellite Boulevard Data Center, GA United States  Sunnyvale, CA United States  Sunnyvale Palm, CA**,*** United States Tulsa, OK United States  Urbandale, IA United States  Vancouver, WA United States  Asia Pacific and Japan Tokyo—Japan HQ Japan Seoul Republic of Korea  Cyberjaya HP Global Center (CJO) Malaysia  Taguig City Philippines Singapore Singapore  Taipei Taiwan  Europe, Middle East, and Africa Sofia Bulgaria Rsselsheim Germany  Rehovot* Israel  Amersfoort Netherlands  Barcelona Sant Cugat* Spain  Sant Cugat del Valles Spain  Bucharest**,*** Romania Billingham United Kingdom  Bristol United Kingdom    * Site/operation	included	in	HPs	global	ISO	14001	certificate.	In	some	cases,	multiple	locations	in	 close	proximity	are	considered	one	site	for	the	purposes	of	the	certification.  ** ISO	14001	certified	but	not	part	of	the	global	certificate.  *** OHSAS	18001	certified	site.  67 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Tech gallery:  environment HP innovations help address critical environmental and social chal- lenges. We design with the environment in mind, and apply and  scale technology to transform and improve how people live and  work. This gallery is just a sampling. HP products, services, and solutions enable people to do more  while reducing resource consumption and waste. Shop the  EcoSolutions Store. Printing Personal  computing Data center Software Services and  solutions HP 3PAR Storage  HP Advantage Monitors  HP	Auto-On/Auto-Off	and	Instant-on	Technology  HP Carbon Emissions Management Service  HP Carbon Footprint Calculator    CeNSE  HP closed loop ink cartridge recycling  HP Color LaserJet CM4540 MFP  HP Compaq 8200 Elite Ultra-slim Desktop PC  HP Critical Facilities Services   HP Data Center Smart Grid    HP Deskjet 3050A e-All-in-One   68 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Printing Personal  computing Data center Software Services and  solutions HP EcoPOD data center    HP EcoSMART Fleet and Console   HP EliteBook notebook PCs  HP ENVY110 e-All-in-One  HP ENVY14 Spectre Ultrabook  HP Energy and Sustainability Management (ESM)  HP HDPE Reinforced Banner  HP Insight Control and Power Advisor   HP LaserJet Pro P1102 printer  MagCloud   HP Managed Print Services   HP	Officejet	Pro	8600	e-All-in-One	series  HP Photosmart ML2000D Minilab Printer  HP Power Assistant for PCs   HP ProCurve  HP Project Moonshot  HP ProLiant G7/Gen8 servers  HP Smart Print   Sustainable data center  HP T300 Color Inkjet Web Press  HP Thermal Logic    HP thin client computers  HP TouchSmart and Omni All-in-One PCs  HP Web Jetadmin   Wynyard data center    HP Z Workstations   69 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Data dashboard:  environment Products and solutions 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Manufacturing: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from product manufacturing (estimated)* Aggregate	first-tier	suppliers	Scope	1	and	2	emissions	 [tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e)] 3,500,000 4,100,000 3,500,000 4,800,000 Coverage [percentage of first-tier supplier spend  captured] 81% 86% 91% 95% Supplier	GHG	emissionsintensity	[tonnes CO2e/first-tier  supplier spend, 2007 = 100%] 100% 96% 96% 94% Transport: GHG emissions from product transport   (estimated)** [tonnes CO2e] 2,000,000 1,800,000  1,700,000   1,900,000   1,900,000    * Refers	to	first-tier	suppliers	for	manufacturing,	materials,	and	components.	Emissions	are	estimated	based	on	suppliers	dollar	volume	of	HP	business	compared	with	their	total	revenue.	The	majority	of	 these companies report on a calendar year basis. 2010 is the most recent year data is available.  ** Does not include data from all recent HP acquisitions. Product reuse and recycling* 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total cumulative recycling—computer hardware and  supplies combined [tonnes] 532,000 651,000 763,000 884,500 1,018,400 Total cumulative recycling—computer hardware and  supplies combined [million pounds] 1,173 1,435 1,682 1,949 2,245 Total reuse and recycling combined [tonnes, approximate] 142,000 153,000 142,000 151,000 160,600 Total reuse of equipment** [tonnes, approximate] 29,000 34,000 30,000 30,000 26,700 Total recycling—computer hardware and supplies   combined [tonnes] 113,000 119,000 112,000 121,000 133,900 Number of countries and territories with HP return   and recycling programs 52 53 56 58 60  70 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Product reuse and recycling* 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total recycling, by region [tonnes] 113,000 119,000 112,000 121,000 133,900 Americas 30,200 36,000 37,500 38,600 49,600 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 76,500 76,700 69,300 76,300 77,100 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan 6,100 6,700 5,600 5,900 7,200 Total recycling, by type [tonnes] 113,000 119,000 112,000 121,000 133,900 Hardware 95,800 98,600 90,500 99,100 113,650 HP LaserJet toner cartridges*** 15,000 19,000 20,100 19,600 18,550 HP ink cartridges*** 2,000 1,850 1,800 2,200 1,700 HP LaserJet toner cartridge recycling Percentage of LaserJet market covered by program 88% 90% 90% 92% 94% Composition Percentage of materials recycled into new products 59% 76% 80% 85% 82% Percentage of materials used for energy recovery 41% 24% 20% 15% 14% Percentage reuse of components**** 4.0% Percentage material in storage—pending processing**** 0.0% Percentage incineration**** 0.0% Percentage	landfill**** 0.0% HP ink cartridge recycling Percentage of ink market covered by program 89% 88% 88% 87% 88% Composition Percentage of materials recovered for recycling 53% 59% 64% 73% 74% Percentage of materials used for energy recovery 21% 38% 31% 23% 22% Percentage reuse of components**** 0.0% Percentage material in storage—pending processing**** 0.2% Percentage incineration**** 4.0% Percentage	landfill**** 0.0% GHG emissions avoided from product recycling   (estimated)***** [tonnes CO2e] 210,000 300,000 210,000 225,000 250,000   * Recycling totals include all hardware and supplies returned to HP for processing; with ultimate dispositions including recycling, energy recovery, and, where no suitable alternatives exist, responsible  disposal.	Hardware	recycling	data	from	Europe,	Middle	East,	and	Africa,	and	HP	LaserJet	recycling	data	are	calendar	year.	The	remaining	data	is	based	on	the	HP	fiscal	year.	Segments	may	not	add	up	to	totals	 due to rounding.   ** The decrease in tonnage from 2007 to 2011 is due to a reduction in the average weight of returned units, rather than a decline in the total number of returned units. Returned units during that period were:  2007: 2.96 million units; 2008: 3.46 million units; 2009: 3.58 million units; 2010: 3.81 million units; 2011: 3.44 million units.  *** Includes	cartridges	returned	by	customers	and	cartridges	from	HP	internally	through	2010.	2011	figure	is	cartridges	returned	by	customers	only.  **** This category of data was added in 2011.  ***** According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys Waste Reduction Model (WARM) Tool, CO2e reductions from recycling are calculated per the following formula: 1.858 kg CO2e/kg recovered electronic waste.  71 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment HP operations (also see GHG emissions below) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Energy use [million kilowatt hours (kWh)] 4,441 4,248 4,140 4,122 Energy intensity [thousand kWh/$ million USD of net  revenue] 37.52 37.08 32.85 32.40 Direct energy use in operations (corresponds to Scope 1 emissions) Electricity (generated on site) [million kWh] 0  13  3 Natural gas* [million kWh] 469 399 435 389 Americas  296 266 267 232 Europe, Middle East, and Africa  153 127 160 144 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 20 6 9 12 Renewable (generated on site) [million kWh] 2 2 2 Diesel/gas/oil** NA NA NA NA Indirect energy use (corresponds to Scope 2 emissions) Electricity (purchased)* [million kWh] 3,972 3,847 3,690 3,728 Americas  2,417 2,333 2,223 2,223 Europe, Middle East, and Africa  879 908 895 870 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 677 606 572 636 Voluntary purchases of renewable energy [million kWh  energy and renewable energy credits, in addition to the  renewable energy available by default in the power grid] 102 131 311 440 Nonhazardous waste*** [tonnes] 89,300 91,800 117,700 101,100 86,400 Americas  52,900 54,200 86,200  59,100  50,100 Europe, Middle East, and Africa  20,100 17,200 18,200  21,100  17,000 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 16,200 20,400 13,300  20,800  19,300 Nonhazardous waste landfill diversion rate*** [percentage of total produced] Global  88.4% 91.3% 88.8% 84.9% 82.2% Americas  87.3% 90.9% 89.8% 82.0% 80.2% Europe, Middle East, and Africa  90.6% 90.6% 85.3% 88.6% 89.0% Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 89.4% 93.0% 88.7% 89.5% 80.2% Nonhazardous waste composition, 2011 [percentage of total] (see Waste and recycling section)  72 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment HP operations (also see GHG emissions below) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Hazardous waste**** [tonnes] 8,830 10,500 7,300 8,430 7,400 Americas  2,360 3,380 2,470 3,600 3,030 Europe, Middle East, and Africa  1,590 2,080 2,210 2,570 2,560 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 4,880 5,020 2,620 2,260 1,810 Water consumption***** [million liters] 7,359 7,225 7,647 8,155 8,041 Americas  4,518 4,297 4,615 4,707 4,395 Europe, Middle East, and Africa  713 831 1,001 1,124 1,192 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 2,128 2,096 2,031 2,324 2,454 Wastewater generation [million liters] 1,225  1,296  Americas  562 587 Europe, Middle East, and Africa  264 259 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 399 450 Ozone depletion potential of estimated emissions   [kg of CFC-11 equivalent] 6,690 4,543 4,407 4,473 4,161 Americas  2,886 2,776 3,573 3,106 3,732 Europe, Middle East, and Africa  25 32 70 17 38 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 3,778 1,735 764 1,350 391 Disposition by type of TRI material (see Toxics release inventory on page 63)    * Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding.   ** Diesel is mostly used at HP for testing generators. HP does not measure the use of this energy.  *** We have restated our 2010 nonhazardous waste data (from 79,800 tonnes as reported in the HP 2010 Global Citizenship Report) to ensure greater consistency with the methodology that we use to calculate  other environmental data, including nonhazardous waste in prior years. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding.  **** 2009 and 2010 data for the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region, and the global totals for those years, were restated to correct reporting errors in the 2009 and 2010 Global Citizenship Reports. Some seg- ments do not add up to total due to rounding.  ***** 2010	water	consumption	data	is	revised	to	reflect	updates	to	reported	data.	Some	segments	do	not	add	up	to	total	due	to	rounding.    To estimate these emissions, HP uses EPA Climate Leaders Greenhouse Gas Inventory Protocol Core Module Guidance May 2008, in conjunction with global warming potential values from www.ipcc.ch/ publications_and_data/ar4/wg1/en/ch2s2-10-2.html. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. GHG emissions (Scopes 1-3, including from operations)* 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 GHG emissions from operations** [tonnes CO2e] 2,165,500 2,060,300 1,865,100 1,856,500 Americas  1,327,400 1,241,500 1,179,900 1,162,700 Europe, Middle East, and Africa  338,800 356,600 253,800 208,500 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 499,300 462,200 431,400 485,300 GHG emissions intensity*** [tonnes CO2e/$ million USD of  net revenue] 19.90 19.31 15.95 15.71  73 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment GHG emissions (Scopes 1-3, including from operations)* 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 GHG emissions by scope [tonnes CO2e] Scope 1 Region [tonnes CO2e] 290,300 281,400 275,700 Americas 170,500 161,900 162,600 Europe, Middle East, and Africa  93,700 100,100 96,200 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 26,100 19,400 16,900 Type Natural gas [tonnes CO2e] 80,700 88,000 78,700 Americas  53,800   53,900  47,000 Europe, Middle East, and Africa   25,600   32,400  29,200 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	  1,300   1,700  2,500 Diesel/gas/oil [tonnes CO2e] 22,700 15,500 6,800 Americas  4,000   3,200  1,400 Europe, Middle East, and Africa   600   500  400 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	  18,100   11,800  5,000 HP	auto	fleet**** [tonnes CO2e] 161,100 168,900 138,400 132,300 129,600 United States and Canada 87,200 81,900 73,900 67,800 64,000 Europe, Middle East, and Africa  71,400 85,000 63,700 63,700 61,700 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 2,500 2,000 800 800 3,900 HP	air	fleet	[tonnes CO2e] 14,300 21,600 13,400 12,500 13,200 Americas 14,300 21,600 13,400 12,500 13,200 Europe, Middle East, and Africa  0 0 0 0 0 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 0 0 0 0 0 Refrigerants (HFCs) [tonnes CO2e] 32,000 29,700 39,200 Americas  22,300   21,100  28,800 Europe, Middle East, and Africa   3,800   3,500  4,900 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	  5,900   5,100  5,500 PFCs***** [tonnes CO2e] 13,490 11,630 3,140 3,440 8,200 Americas 12,920 11,390 3,100 3,400 8,160 Europe, Middle East, and Africa  0 30 40 40 40 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 570 210 0 0 0  74 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment GHG emissions (Scopes 1-3, including from operations)* 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Scope 2 Region [tonnes CO2e] 1,921,800 1,728,500 1,723,600 Americas 1,158,300 1,098,300 1,077,300 Europe, Middle East, and Africa  326,600 217,400 174,000 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 436,900 412,800 472,300 Type Purchased electricity for operations [tonnes CO2e] 2,030,800 1,946,100 1,999,300 Americas  1,219,900   1,160,600  1,155,400 Europe, Middle East, and Africa   374,000   372,700  371,600 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	  436,900   412,800  472,300 Reductions from voluntary purchases of   renewable energy and renewable energy credits  [tonnes CO2e] -78,700 -160,500 -231,300 Americas -61,600 -62,300 -78,100 Europe, Middle East, and Africa  -17,100 -98,200 -153,200 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 0 0 0 Reductions from voluntary upgrades to other no/ low carbon energy sources (such as large hydro)  [tonnes CO2e] -30,300 -57,100 -44,400 Americas 0 0 0 Europe, Middle East, and Africa  -30,300 -57,100 -44,400 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 0 0 0 Scope 3  Product manufacturing (estimated) [tonnes CO2e] 3,500,000 4,100,000 3,500,000 4,800,000 NA Product transport (estimated) [tonnes CO2e] 2,000,000 1,800,000 1,700,000 1,900,000 1,900,000 Employee commercial air travel [tonnes CO2e] 289,000 320,000 214,000 304,000 322,000 Product recycling (estimated emissions avoided)  [tonnes CO2e]  210,000  300,000 210,000 225,000 250,000   * Beginning in 2009, HP integrated its legacy and Electronic Data Systems (EDS) data into a single calculation methodology, enabling the reporting of several metrics below beginning that year.   ** Total	includes	Scope	1	and	Scope	2	emissions	in	table,	except	emissions	from	HP	auto	fleet	and	HP	air	fleet.  *** Worldwide	GHG	emissions	do	not	include	employee	travel.	Historical	emissions	intensity	values	were	calculated	using	HPs	annual	revenue	as	characterized	in	financial	reporting	and	GHG	emissions	from	 facilities,	the	HP	auto	fleet,	and	the	HP	air	fleet	as	reported	for	that	year	in	the	HP	Global	Citizenship	Report	(i.e.,	historical	values	were	not	adjusted	for	corporate	acquisitions	per	the	GHG	Protocol).	Our	base- line emissions in 2005 without adjustments for corporate acquisitions (such as Enterprise Data Services in 2008) was 1,551,300 tonnes of CO2e. Though our intensity value increased due to the acquisition of  Enterprise	Data	Services	in	2008,	we	have	implemented	a	variety	of	energy	efficiency	measures	and	made	purchases	of	renewable	energy	that	have	subsequently	decreased	this	number.  **** Includes	calculated	values	for	HPs	Americas	and	Europe,	Middle	East,	and	Africa	regions,	and	estimated	values	for	the	companys	Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	region.	  ***** Use of updated industry standard emissions factors for process tools resulted in a considerable increase in estimated emissions in 2011. This data is based on the calendar year.    Refers	to	first-tier	suppliers	for	manufacturing,	materials,	and	components.	Emissions	are	estimated	based	on	suppliers	dollar	volume	of	HP	business	compared	with	their	total	revenue.	The	majority	of	 these companies report on a calendar year basis. 2010 is the most recent year data is available.   Does not include data from all recent HP acquisitions.   Values	for	2007-2009	are	based	on	emissions	factors	for	short-haul,	medium-haul,	and	long-haul	flights	and	total	miles	flown	in	each	category.	2010	and	2011	values	were	provided	by	HPs	global	travel	 agency using a more accurate methodology which accounts for the type of aircraft, passenger and cargo load, cabin class, and miles traveled for each ticketed trop. Data for 2010 was restated.    According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agencys Waste Reduction Model (WARM) Tool, CO2e reductions from recycling are calculated per the following formula: 1.858 kg CO2e/kg recovered electronic waste.  75 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Goals: environment Products and solutions Life cycle assessment Year Goal 2011 Establish an International Organization for Standardization (ISO) technical committee working group  for a commercial printing carbon footprint standard. Progress: HP participated in the working group; the proposed standard will be up for a vote during  2012. Conduct life cycle assessments (LCAs) on numerous products across our imaging and printing portfolio. Progress: HP completed 32 LCAs on HP LaserJet products as well as an LCA comparing a digital photo  album with an album of printed photos. Conduct pilot studies and training of the Product Environment Metrics tool for HP large-format,  commercial, and industrial printing solutions. Progress: HP completed the training, but conducted no pilot studies due to changing project  priorities. Communicate life cycle assessment carbon footprint methodology or Product Attribute to Impact  Algorithm (PAIA) results for notebooks. Progress: HP collaborated with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) to create a draft PAIA  tool for notebooks. We will release the PAIA tool once pertinent component data has been vetted, and  anticipate publishing product carbon footprint values for new notebooks beginning in 2012. 2012 Calculate and disclose product carbon footprint values using the PAIA tool for new HP notebook,  desktop, and monitor products. Complete life cycle assessments on 20 additional HP LaserJet printers, one HP scanner, and one  book vs. e-reader. Work with competitors to establish product category rules for printers.  76 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Materials Year Goal 2011 As technologically feasible alternatives become readily available that will not compromise product  performance or quality, and that will not adversely impact health or the environment, we will  complete the phase out of BFR and PVC in newly introduced personal computing products in 2011.* Progress: HP achieved 67% of its goal to phase out BFR and PVC in newly introduced personal  computing products in 2011; 100% of all new notebook products have achieved this BFR- and  PVC-free goal. HP will complete its goal to phase out BFR and PVC where technically feasible in those  few remaining new PC products as market demand and customer expectations permit.  Use a total of 100 million pounds (45,000 tonnes), cumulatively from 2007, of recycled plastic in HP  printing products. Progress: Achieved as of July 2011. Apply the European Union (EU) Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) 2 substance and exemp- tion requirements voluntarily outside the EU (and European Free Trade Association) on a worldwide  basis within 6 months of each of the EUs various legal compliance dates for virtually all HP-branded  products in the scope of EU RoHS 2, except where it is widely recognized that there is no technically  feasible alternative (as indicated by an exemption under the EU RoHS Directive). Progress: Achieved for 2011. 2012 Complete the phase-out of bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), dibutyl phthalate (DBP), and butyl  benzyl phthalate (BBP) in newly introduced personal computing products by the end of 2012.  * Meeting	the	evolving	definition	of	BFR/PVC-free	as	set	forth	in	the	iNEMI	Position	Statement	on	the	Definition	of	Low-Halogen	Electronics	(BFR/CFR/PVC-Free).	Plastic	 parts	contain	<	1,000	ppm	(0.1%)	of	bromine	[if	the	Br	source	is	from	BFRs]	and	<	1,000	ppm	(0.1%)	of	chlorine	[if	the	Cl	source	is	from	CFRs	or	PVC	or	PVC	copolymers].	 All	printed	circuit	board	(PCB)	and	substrate	laminates	contain	bromine/chlorine	total	<	1,500	ppm	(0.15%)	with	a	maximum	chlorine	of	900	ppm	(0.09%)	and	maximum	 bromine being 900 ppm (0.09%). Power supply and power cords are not BFR/PVC free. Service parts after purchase may not be BFR/PVC free. WWAN is not BFR/PVC free. Paper Year Goal 2011 40%	or	more	of	HP-branded	paper	will	be	Forest	Stewardship	Council	(FSC)-certified	or	have	at	least	 30% postconsumer waste content by the end of 2011. Progress: We exceeded the 40% goal for HP-branded paper meeting one or both of these criteria,  compared with 14% that met the criteria in 2010. 2015 50%	or	more	of	HP-branded	paper	will	be	FSC-certified	or	have	at	least	30%	postconsumer	waste	 content by the end of 2015.  Progress: We are on track to meet this target (see related 2011 goal above).  77 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Manufacturing Year Goal 2011 Report	the	aggregated	greenhouse	gas	(GHG)	emissions	from	HPs	largest	first-	and	second-tier	 suppliers,	representing	more	than	90%	of	first-tier	and	45%	of	second-tier	material,	components,	 and	manufacturing	spend,	including	all	HP	final	assembly	manufacturers. Progress: Reported	emissions	representing	95%	of	HPs	spending	with	first-tier	suppliers	for	2010	 (the	most	recent	data	available).	Suppliers	representing	54%	of	HPs	first-tier	supplier	spending	  estimated their own Scope 3 GHG emissions.  Report supplier greenhouse gas emissions performance in year-over-year comparison. Progress: Reported 2010 performance. Report	on	actual	savings	our	suppliers	achieved	from	the	China	Energy	Efficiency	Partnership	 program. Progress: During	the	first	10	months	of	the	2011	program	cycle	(through	June	2011),	participating	 HP suppliers reported savings that total 6 million kilowatt hours.  2012 Continue to promote supplier transparency in environmental performance and carbon emissions  reduction	by	collecting	carbon	emissions	data	from	suppliers	representing	95%	of	first-tier	  manufacturing, material, and component supplier spend.  Facilitate supplier environmental performance improvements by tripling the number of HP supplier  sites	participating	in	the	Energy	Efficiency	Partnership	program	compared	with	2011	and	sharing	 energy-saving best practices developed through the program to date.  Packaging Year Goal 2011 Inkjet supplies Achieve 35% minimum recycled content for corrugate, globally. Progress: Achieved.  Achieve 80% minimum recycled content for paperboard, globally. Progress: Achieved. 2011 Desktop and notebook PC products Achieve 35% minimum recycled content for corrugate, globally. Progress: Achieved. Reduce the ratio of total packaging weight to total packaged product weight to 28%. Progress: We have taken steps to reduce the ratio and believe that we made substantial progress   in 2011. However, due to several changes in HP packaging designs and the complex nature of the  resulting calculations, we cannot accurately report our progress on the goal at this time. We are  updating our tools to more reliably assess this weight ratio in the future.  78 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Transport Year Goal 2013 Implement network enhancements, mode changes, and route optimization that decrease greenhouse  gas emissions from product transport by 180,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e), since 2008. Progress: Through 2011, we have achieved reductions through various projects of 138,000 tonnes of  CO2e, since 2008. Product use Year Goal 2011 HP will reduce the energy consumption of HP products* and associated greenhouse gas) emissions   to 40% below 2005 levels by the end of 2011.  Progress: Reduced to 50% below 2005 levels, achieved 9 months ahead of schedule. Representative product categories have their own goals, including the following goals for HPs  high-volume printer, and desktop and notebook PC families: HP	will	improve	the	overall	energy	efficiency	of	HP	ink	and	laser	printing	products	by	40%,	relative	  to 2005.** Progress: HP	exceeded	this	goal	and	improved	the	energy	efficiency	of	HP	ink	and	laser	printing	prod- ucts by 46%, relative to 2005. HP will save customers 1 billion kilowatt hours (kWh) of electricity through a variety of product design  strategies   in HPs high-volume HP desktop and notebook PC families, relative to 2008.*** Progress: HP exceeded this goal and saved customers 1.4 billion kWh through 2010. 2012 Worldwide, new 2012 HP LaserJet and inkjet printers will use 13% less electricity annually than 2011  HP LaserJet and inkjet printers.****   * The average energy consumption of HP products is estimated using high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. Energy consumption has been  estimated in 2005 and annually since. The high-volume product lines include notebook and desktop computers, inkjet and LaserJet printers, and industry-standard servers.  ** Efficiency	is	defined	in	terms	of	kWh	(using	the	typical	electricity	consumption	method)	divided	by	pages	per	minute.	These	families	represent	more	than	32%	of	inkjet	printers	and	 more	than	45%	of	LaserJet	printers	shipped	in	2005.	HP	updated	this	goal	from	the	goal	included	in	the	fiscal	year	2007	Global	Citizenship	Report,	which	targeted	a	30%	improvement	 in	energy	efficiency	by	2010,	relative	to	2005.  *** Energy savings calculated by comparing average 2008 HP product ENERGY STAR typical energy consumption (TEC) value to average 2010 HP product ENERGY STAR TEC value multi- plied over 2008 volume.  **** Baseline	figure	is	model	year	2011	HP	LaserJet	and	inkjet	printers	sold	worldwide.  79 Contents Commitment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Environment Product reuse and recycling Year Goal 2015 Recycle 3.5 billion pounds (1.6 million tonnes) of electronic products and supplies by the end of 2015  (since 1987). Reuse 40 million electronic product and accessory units by the end of 2015 (since 2003). HP operations Energy and GHG emissions Year Goal 2012 Double voluntary purchases of renewable energy to 8% of electricity use (in addition to the renew- able energy available by default in the power grid). Progress: We purchased approximately 440 million kilowatt hours of renewable energy worldwide in  2011, equivalent to more than 10% of overall electricity use, achieving our goal 1 year early. 2013 Reduce the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from HP-owned and HP-leased facilities by 20% relative  to 2005 levels by the end of 2013 on an absolute basis. Progress: GHG emissions from our operations (not including travel) equaled 1,856,500 tonnes in  2011, 20% below our 2005 baseline, meeting our goal 2 years early. By the end of 2012, we will  create a new goal for reduction of GHG emissions from operations. 2015 Reduce	greenhouse	gas	emissions	from	HPs	U.S.	auto	fleet	by	10%	on	a	per	unit	basis,	compared	 with 2010. Water Year Goal 2015 Reduce	freshwater	use	at	sites	identified	as	water-stressed	by	3%,	compared	with	2011	consumption	  at those locations.  81  Ethics and human rights 91  Supply chain responsibility 117  Privacy 120  HP people 147  Social innovation 157  Tech gallery: social innovation 158  Public policy 160  Economic impacts 162  Data dashboard: society 166  Goals: society Society At HP, we apply our talent, technology, and partnerships to improve  communities and address social challenges—such as education and  health—around the world. In addition, we promote responsible practices   in our supply chain, respect human rights, and foster ethical behavior.   We	strive	to	create	a	workplace	where	all	of	our	employees	can	flourish.	  81 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Ethics and  human rights Technology is transforming the world, making it more important than ever for companies  such as HP to make this transformation thoughtfully and responsibly. Our values guide us to  behave ethically and with respect for others, including suppliers, partners, employees,  customers,	and	society	more	broadly.	We	use	our	scale	and	influence	to	encourage	similar	 behavior beyond our operations. Read more in Human rights on page 85. We work diligently to maintain a strong culture of integrity globally, regardless of cultural  norms or local laws and regulations. Our Standards of Business Conduct (SBC) applies to all  HP employees, everywhere. Our robust ethics and compliance program ensures we dont just  avoid doing the wrong thing, but also that we enhance our brand by winning the right way.  Our approach requires that all HP employees, partners, and suppliers, everywhere, behave  with integrity and use lawful and ethical business practices. We do not tolerate bribery and  will never trade our integrity for a business opportunity. This means refusing to pay bribes or  kickbacks even when it means walking away from a deal (see Anti-corruption section).  We have processes in place for employees, partners, and suppliers to report ethics issues  that do arise, and we work quickly to resolve those according to our policy and local laws.  Read more in Asking questions and reporting concerns on page 84. HP codes of conduct Employees Standards of Business Conduct   (20+ languages)  HP U.S. Public Sector  Employees U.S. Public Sector Code of Conduct Contingent Workers Contingent Worker Code of Conduct  (20+ languages) Suppliers HP Electronic Industry Citizenship   Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct Partners Partner Code of Conduct   (20+ languages)  82 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Ethics and compliance Every day, HPs actions impact our reputation. Legal compliance  is the absolute minimum we expect of our employees, partners,  and suppliers. We diligently promote a culture of integrity and  ethical decision making everywhere we operate, even when it  means holding ourselves to a higher standard than local laws or  customs require. We have in place the standards, governance  structures, training, communications, and reporting and investi- gation procedures needed to ensure ethical behavior and legal  compliance globally.  Our Standards of Business Conduct (SBC) sets non-negotiable  expectations for all our decisions and actions and provides guid- ance	in	difficult	situations,	such	as	avoiding	conflicts	of	interest	and	 rejecting bribery and corruption. The SBC is available in more than  20 languages and is supplemented by additional codes for HP  employees working with the U.S. Public Sector, contingent workers,  suppliers, and partners. Governance structure and  responsibilities Our governance structure includes executives from the board level  and down. They set the tone at the top and reinforce our ethics and  compliance	culture.	Our	Ethics	and	Compliance	Office	leads	this	 work	from	within	HPs	Office	of	the	General	Counsel,	with	oversight	 from the Board of Directors. Meg	Whitman	became	HPs	president	and	chief	executive	officer	in	 September 2011, and has served as a member of HPs board since  January 2011. When Ms. Whitman was appointed, Raymond Lane  moved from nonexecutive chairman to executive chairman of the  board of directors. In connection with Mr. Lanes transition to an  executive role, HP appointed Rajiv Gupta to serve as lead indepen- dent director.  The boards Audit Committee provides nonexecutive input into HPs  ethics and compliance program and provides guidance to our chief  ethics	and	compliance	officer	as	required. See also information on HP board membership, board committees  and composition, and corporate governance guidelines, which  covers items including director independence and compensation.  Key ethics and compliance functions  The diagram shows HPs organizational governance structure for  ethics	and	compliance.	Here	are	just	two	examples	of	significant	 activities carried out by these functions during the year:  	The	Compliance	Office	continued	to	assess	our	compliance	func- tions	against	predefined	standards,	identify	new	legal	risks,	and	 track progress against recommendations made during our well- ness assessment process, which began in 2009. Every 2 years,  we comprehensively assess compliance risks for each business  group	and	will	next	do	so	in	2012.	The	Compliance	Office	is	the	 central hub for 44 companywide compliance functions including  the	privacy,	anti-corruption,	and	global	trade	offices. 	We increased the number of SBC liaisons from 28 to 36 to further  embed ethics and compliance into each business unit. SBC liaisons  are senior-level employees who champion ethics and compliance  across HP. Chief Ethics and Compliance Ocer  Ethics and Compliance Committee Ethics and Compliance Oce  Board of Directors Audit Committee Independent Director Compliance Council Global Ethics Team Privacy and Data  Protection Board Regulatory Compliance  Review Board Market Knowledge  Board Compliance Oce Social and Environmental  Responsibility  Operations Council Business, Regional,  and Global Functions  SBC Liaisons Local SBC Network  Ethics Oce Corporate SBC Compliance Team Ethics and compliance governance structure   83 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society HP employees making an impact:   Eberhard Koehler Eberhard	Koehler	is	working	to	level	the	playing	field	among	HPs	 channel partners, helping to ensure that business is done fair and  square. Learn more about Eberhard Koehler on page 140. Communication and training Every person at HP is accountable for their actions—regardless of  the position held in the company. We continue to strengthen our  training and awareness program to maintain focus on ethics and  compliance. The main initiatives include:  Mandatory ethics and compliance annual refresher course This  60-minute online session covers the SBC and key policies, proce- dures, and high-risk issues. Between March 1 and June 30, 2011,  99.2% of employees (excluding new hires, those on leave of  absence, and people leaving HP) completed the course. New hires  are asked to complete a more comprehensive course within 30  days of their start date.  Videos Our Ethical Moments videos depict ethical issues that  might arise and how to handle them. In 2011, approximately  35,000 employees viewed each of four videos on reporting fraud,  accuracy of records, data protection, and gifts and entertain- ment. In our Leaders on Ethics videos, senior leaders provide  guidance on company policies and workplace behavior. This year,  the videos covered anti-corruption, social media, and information  technology security.  IonETHICS New this year, IonETHICS combines our previous  employee Ethics Bulletin and SBC Lessons Learned for leaders into  a twice yearly presentation of anonymous real-life case studies,  what if? scenarios, timely tips, and statistics to help employees  understand the questions to ask and actions to take if faced with  similar situations. Spotlight on anti-corruption HPs expansion in growth markets means we increasingly  operate in countries where regulations and cultural norms may  be less stringent than our own standards. Our responsibility is to  make sure everyone lives up to the highest standards. Corrupt behavior impedes legal compliance, and social and  economic development, and undermines the very foundation  upon which HP was built. We do not tolerate any bribery and will  never trade our integrity for a business opportunity, and we do  not	offer	bribes	or	kickbacks	to	win	business	or	influence	a	busi- ness decision.  HP is committed to complying fully with all anti-corruption and  anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the U.S.  Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. To ensure  compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws, wherever   we do business, we have an extensive program, which is summa- rized in HPs Anti-Corruption Compliance Program Overview.   HP also has policies for Global Business Gifts, Travel, and  Entertainment and Political Contributions.  To minimize potential issues, we use globally respected data— the Corruption Perceptions Index, produced by Transparency  International—in conjunction with internal and other external  data, to identify high-risk countries and raise awareness of  ethical issues in each market. Anti-corruption training is part of our mandatory ethics and  compliance induction for new hires and an annual refresher  course for all employees. Additionally, HP salespeople globally  complete detailed, scenario-based anti-corruption training.  Those who work with public sector customers in the United  States	complete	additional	training	specific	to	the	unique	 requirements of doing business with the U.S. government. The  ethics	and	compliance	office	provides	specific	guidance	for	 growth markets, including face-to-face training on the SBC and  Global Business Gifts, Travel, and Entertainment Policy in local  languages.  In 2011, we launched a blueprint to standardize the way we  implement our program in each new market, based on our expe- rience in existing markets. We also appointed ethics and  compliance	directors	in	our	Asia	Pacific	and	Europe,	Middle	East,	 and Africa regions to strengthen our approach. In addition, we require all employees, partners, and suppliers to  report corrupt activity and to understand and follow our anti- corruption policies—ignorance is not an excuse for failing to  comply. We encourage them to contact the Ethics and  Compliance	Office	to	check	whether	an	action	might	constitute	 misconduct, and we promptly investigate alleged violations of  our policies or the law. The	German	Public	Prosecutors	Office,	the	U.S.	Department	of	 Justice, and the Securities and Exchange Commission are investi- gating allegations of misconduct in connection with a 2003  transaction between a former HP subsidiary in Germany and the  Russian	General	Prosecutors	Office	(GPO).	HP	continues	to	coop- erate fully with these authorities in their ongoing investigations  of the GPO transaction. We take these matters very seriously, and  HP remains committed to upholding the highest standards of  ethics and compliance in the conduct of its business.  84 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Additional activities in 2011 included: 	Delivering ethics and compliance training to country managers  and senior leaders in high-risk countries. In 2011, we provided the  training to 15 such countries. Other countries may participate at  their	discretion.	The	training	is	designed	by	the	Ethics	Office	and	 delivered by regional and country attorneys in their native coun- tries. It highlights current trends, and we encourage countries to  customize the content where appropriate. 	Refreshing our ethics and compliance training for new employees  to	reflect	current	trends.	The	comprehensive,	straightforward	 course explains the reporting channels available for discussing  ethical concerns or reporting violations and HPs commitment to  nonretaliation for employees reporting suspected violations in  good faith. 	Training our global sales force in anti-corruption, with a particular  focus on public sector sales. In 2012, we will deliver anti-corrup- tion training to employees from Privacy, Social and Environmental  Sustainability and Compliance, Global Security, and Government  Relations, in addition to our salespeople. Asking questions and reporting  concerns HP encourages employees to speak up, ask questions whenever  they are uncertain of the best course of action, and report anything  that doesnt seem right—without fear of retaliation. In keeping with HPs longstanding open door approach to commu- nication, we provide guidance on asking questions and reporting  concerns in our SBC, accompanying training module, corporate  policy directory, and ethics and compliance website. Employees can  talk to their line manager or more senior managers if ethics issues  arise, or seek advice from our ethics and compliance experts or  regional or business SBC liaisons. We work to provide more counseling on ethical issues to prevent  violations of law, company policy, or the SBC. In 2011, we increased  ethics and compliance consulting matters by 34.8%, compared with  2010. Views of the questions and concerns page of HPs global  website increased by almost 90% between 2010 and 2011 as a  result of our focus on encouraging people to seek guidance when  they are unsure of the best course of action. When	alleged	violations	do	occur,	we	provide	formal,	confidential	 communication reporting channels for employees and third parties  including, beginning in 2011, an online form, as well as a global  24-hour toll-free hotline with translators available. Where allowed  by law, reporting can be anonymous. See how to ask a question or report a concern. Investigating concerns HPs Global Case Management System records allegations of ethical  violations in a worldwide database, and provides management with  access to incident details as needed, while protecting personal infor- mation. Data recorded in the system enables us to identify locations  where higher levels of ethics and compliance-related incidents are  being reported, indicating where additional action may be needed. We respond promptly to all alleged violations and conduct investi- gations as appropriate. Investigations may involve local, regional,  or corporate-level employees, depending on the allegation, and  may include members of other relevant functions, as needed. The  Litigation Investigations team oversees all escalated, corporate-led  investigations.	Details	and	results	of	investigations	are	kept	confi- dential to the extent reasonably practical. We take appropriate  disciplinary action based on the results of our investigations,  including terminating employees and reviewing relationships with  partners where necessary.  Investigation process overview   Review the allegation and  prepare a notication memo  Form the investigation team  and assign a case owner  Put together an investigation  plan  Kick o conference call  Develop informants and other  witnesses  Background work    - Obtain remotely available    information    - Email/HDD search and analysis    - Informational interviews by    phone  Revise plan for on-site  investigation  Obtain and review evidence  only available on-site  Interview witnesses and  subjects  Assess credibility  Reach reasonable conclusions  in good faith  Discuss initial recommendations  and disclose as required  Write the report  Solicit inputs  SBCCT Leadership Team and  applicable regional and  business unit SBC liaisons  review report and conrm  recommendations  Close case   Implement Form team and plan Remote investigation On-site investigation Review, analyze,  and conclude Report and close Investigation principles  85 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society 2007* 2008 2009 2010 2011 Human resources 37% 56% 35% 44%  42% Misuse of assets 20% 19%  14% 11%  10% Fraud 12% 5% 12% 10%  9% Sales channel violations 9% 1% 3% 3%  3% Conflicts	of	interest 7% 4% 7% 6%  8% Confidentiality 4% 4% 6% 5%  6% Customer relationships 1% 0% 2% 2%  3% Financial and public reporting 1% 1% 4% 3%  2% Competition 0% 1% 1% 1%  3% Other 9% 9% 16% 15% 14%   * This	data	is	for	the	calendar	year.	Data	for	2008–2011	is	for	HPs	financial	year	ending	October	31,	2011. Human rights Human rights are the fundamental rights, freedoms, and standards  of treatment to which all people are entitled. HP upholds and respects  human	rights	as	reflected	in	the	United	Nations	(UN)	Universal	 Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the UN Global Compact, and the  UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Respecting human rights is a core value at HP and is embedded in  everything we do. We believe it is our corporate responsibility to  use	our	size	and	influence	to	promote	human	rights	in	our	commu- nities. We apply this commitment across our business, from our  suppliers to our own operations to protecting the privacy of our  customers. Our formal commitments are outlined in HPs Global  Human Rights Policy.  During 2011 we reviewed and enhanced our Global Human Rights  Policy and strengthened HPs internal governance for managing  human	rights	issues	and	fulfilling	our	human	rights	commitments. We continue to participate in leadership initiatives and engage with  organizations that promote global respect for human rights such as  the Global Business Initiative on Human Rights (GBI) and BSR. Items reported to the Global SBC team or other compliance functions, 2007–2011  86 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society HP employees making an impact:   Zoe McMahon As part of her work as director of HPs Social and Environmental  Sustainability and Compliance program, Zoe McMahon collaborates  with human rights organizations and draws on HPs experience to  help improve working conditions in supply chains worldwide. Learn  more about Zoe McMahon on page 142. Faris Natour Director, Human Rights, BSR Faris looks to HP to be at the  forefront of businesses devel- oping innovative approaches to  addressing human rights. Visit  our online gallery of external   stakeholder perspectives to see   Fariss video. Features of HPs enhanced Global  Human Rights Policy Following a risk assessment of HPs human rights policies and  practices conducted by the Danish Institute on Human Rights  (DIHR) in 2010 and commissioned by HP, our Global Citizenship  Council (GCC) determined that the companys longstanding human  rights policy should be revised to provide greater focus on the  areas	identified	as	priorities	for	our	industry.	 The policy, expanded in 2011, establishes HPs commitment to  leadership in integrating respect for human rights worldwide into  our operations and across our business. HP will in practice: 	Comply with laws and regulations where HP does business   and adopt and apply international standards where laws are   less stringent.  	Complete due diligence to avoid complicity in human rights  violations. 	Regularly assess human rights risks, policies, and impacts and  provide visibility of the results to senior executives.  	Provide access to independent grievance mechanisms immedi- ately to raise concerns or identify adverse human rights impacts.  	Promptly investigate allegations and pursue action to mitigate  any adverse human rights impacts. 	Promote continual improvement through capability building for our  business partners, terminating relationships only as a last resort.  	Advance our human rights practices through a journey of   cumulative progress. 	Report	transparently	on	our	efforts. The policy highlights the cross linkage between human rights and  other existing HP policy areas such as supply chain management,  employment practices, and privacy. It summarizes human rights  components	of	existing	policies	that	affirm	HPs	commitment	to	 human rights across business functions. Human rights governance and  management Because respect for human rights takes many forms and can occur  in multiple areas of HPs business, we need strong governance to  ensure	consistent	risk	identification	and	issues	management.	During	 2011, we added a human rights program manager and transferred  responsibility for human rights program management to the Ethics  and	Compliance	Office	within	the	Office	of	the	General	Counsel. HPs GCC, sponsored by a member of the HP Executive Council, is  made up of senior executives and subject matter experts from  across the company. The council meets quarterly to promote global  citizenship and human rights. During 2011, the membership of the  GCC	was	modified	to	ensure	appropriate	senior	leader	and	subject	 matter expert representation. The GCC was instrumental in the  human rights policy review and approval of the enhanced policy. Related	to	this	process,	we	discussed	seven	focal	areas	identified	by	 the DIHR with external stakeholders: 	Labor and employment, especially in our supply chain  	Conflict	minerals	 	Privacy and data protection  	Diversity and discrimination  	Freedom of expression  	Water  	Customer use of products and services Feedback indicated that water issues were likely to increase in  significance	and	that	we	should	add	an	eighth	focus	area,	anti- corruption, to our watch list. External leadership HP continued its external advocacy and leadership to promote  human rights during 2011, primarily through participation in the GBI.  Supported by 14 companies, the GBI is pursuing two complementary  workstreams: action learning around the UN Guiding Principles on  Human Rights and business awareness and capacity building. During 2011, HP representatives spoke at the GBI Roundtable in  Malaysia, contributing insights on incorporating respect for human  rights through corporate polices and processes. HP is also involved  in a project to provide guidance on how human rights principles can  most	effectively	be	embedded	in	contractual	relationships.  87 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Other sections of the HP Global  Citizenship Report relevant to  human rights   Human rights issues intersect many aspects of HPs global citizen- ship work. Below are links to other sections of this report  containing aspects of human rights management: 	Anti-corruption 	Reporting and investigating human rights and other ethics  concerns 	Conflict	minerals	tracing	and	elimination	(see	below) 	Health, education, and community initiatives in support of   human rights 	Labor, employment, diversity, and antidiscrimination in HPs  operations 	Privacy and data protection 	Supply chain human rights issues 	Water availability Human rights–related policies  HP policies with particular relevance to human rights include: 	HP Standards of Business Conduct 	HP Global Human Rights Policy 	Contingent Worker Code of Conduct 	HP Best Work Environment Policy 	HP Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) Policy 	HP Global Citizenship Policy 	HP Global Master Privacy Policy 	HP Harassment-free Work Environment Policy 	HP Nondiscrimination Policy 	HP Open Door Policy 	HP Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct  (supplier code of conduct)  	HP Supply Chain Social and Environmental Responsibility Policy 	Partner Code of Conduct Conflict minerals HP	plays	a	leading	role	in	international	efforts	focused	on	achieving	 practical	solutions	to	the	issue	of	conflict	minerals	in	the	 Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Minerals originating from the DRC have been a concern for more  than a decade because some mines are controlled by armed militia  engaged in a civil war. Transport over long distances from the mine  is also vulnerable to interference by these forces. The problems in  the DRC are complex and intractable, but HP has determined that  its leadership and resources, working in collaboration with others,  can develop pilot supply chains through which minerals can be  mined	free	from	the	influence	of	armed	groups. One of our prime concerns is to avoid a widespread exit of trade  from the region. This would worsen the plight of the population,  and	may	not	reduce	trade	in	conflict	minerals	by	those	industries	 and companies not obligated to make disclosures under U.S. law.  We believe that advancing multi-stakeholder initiatives will  encourage others to join us in building a lasting solution. We have  engaged widely, working in partnership with others committed to  achieving	conflict-free	trade	with	the	DRC,	including	industry	peers	 and trade organizations, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs),  and governments. Mining tantalite at Luba Mine in Katanga, DRC.  88 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Progress toward a solution In	2011	HP	and	its	partners	made	significant	progress	on	the	 following	five	fronts:	(1)	conducting	due	diligence	of	HPs	supply	 chain, (2) supporting the development of an industry due diligence  approach, (3) advancing the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition  Global	e-Sustainability	Initiative	(GeSI)	Conflict-Free	Smelter	(CFS)	 program,	(4)	supporting	an	alliance	for	in-region	mineral	certifica- tion,	and	(5)	influencing	policy	and	legislation.	 Conducting due diligence of our supply chain HP worked to conduct due diligence on its suppliers in advance of  the	final	U.	S.	Securities	and	Exchange	Commission	(SEC)	regulations	 implementing	the	conflict	minerals	provisions	of	the	Dodd-Frank	 Act. We then followed up in August 2011 with a formal communica- tion requiring suppliers to provide information about the smelters  they	use,	and	requesting	that	they	adopt	a	DRC	conflict-free	policy	 and set the same requirements for their suppliers. HPs suppliers  have provided the names of several hundred possible smelters and  refiners.	We	are	working	with	those	companies	to	confirm	which	are	 smelters and will encourage those not already involved in CFS to  participate in the program. Supporting the development of an industry  due diligence approach  HP has developed and propagated to the industry a common  approach to conducting due diligence. We were a codeveloper of the  EICC-GeSI reporting template used to share due diligence information  between suppliers and customers. We also cofacilitated the imple- mentation of the dashboard tool that supports this reporting  template, facilitating and standardizing data collection and reporting. In addition, HP helped to teach hundreds of industry members how  to use the template and dashboard to advance this standardized  approach, leading to improved accuracy of information and less  administrative duplication. Advancing the CFS program   HP	is	one	of	five	company	representatives	on	the	Audit	Review	 Committee of the CFS program. The committees role is to identify  and	validate	smelters	that	process	only	conflict-free	minerals.	CFS	 auditors have visited and reviewed more than 40 smelters to  conduct audits according to CFS-developed protocols for tantalum,  tin, tungsten, and gold—audit protocols shared with all industry  sectors. To date, 11 tantalum smelters have been validated as  conflict	free	through	this	process.	The	participation	of	22	gold,	 5tungsten,	and	45	tin	smelters	is	under	way.1 The	list	of	conflict-free	smelters	is	maintained	at	  www.conflictfreesmelter.org.  Supporting an alliance for in-region mineral  certification  Establishing a validated supply of minerals to smelters poses  significant	challenges.	Given	that	there	is	no	visible	difference	 between	minerals	from	different	mines,	there	is	a	need	for	secure	 traceability from mine to smelter to avoid misrepresentation of  conflict	minerals	as	conflict	free.	In	addition,	militias	often	engage	 in extortion of workers during mineral transport rather than at the  mine itself, further confusing the clear origin of minerals. To be  certified	as	conflict	free,	all	transactions	reflecting	movement	of	 minerals from mines to smelters need to be transparent. The  Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade was founded  to help establish a system of traceability in supply chains where  there	is	a	risk	of	involvement	with	conflict.	The	Solutions	for	Hope	 project	is	a	leading	example	of	how	conflict-free	tantalum	is	being	 sourced in the DRC today (see details on next page). 1 As of March 15, 2012. Miners using a sluicing technique to concentrate tantalite ore at the Mai Baridi Mine in Katanga.  89 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade (PPA) The rationale underpinning the newly established Public-Private  Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade is that collaboration  between	influential	stakeholders	is	the	key	to	achieving	change	 with	respect	to	sourcing	conflict-free	minerals.	PPA	is	a	joint	initia- tive between the U.S. government, private sector companies, trade  associations representing a range of industries, NGOs, and the  International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR). This  alliance will act as a hub to support developing secure supply chains  for	conflict-free	minerals.	Notably,	HP	was	the	first	corporation	to	 commit to joining the PPA, and an HP representative was elected to  its Governance Committee.  The PPA will focus on three functions: 	Growing existing programs and systems for businesses to source  minerals	from	mines	that	have	been	audited	and	certified	as	 conflict	free 	Providing a platform for coordination and dialogue among govern- ment, industry, and civil society participants seeking to support  conflict-free	mineral	sourcing	in	the	DRC	and	Great	Lakes	Region 	Supporting a website that provides companies and other stake- holders with information about sourcing minerals in the DRC while  remaining compliant with U.S. law HP was one of two companies with representatives who traveled to  the DRC to meet with stakeholders, visit mines, and assess the situ- ation on the ground to inform HPs PPA governance role. During this  trip, HP representatives participated in a series of separate meetings  with other PPA members and the Provincial Minister of Mines of  Katanga, Maniema, North Kivu, and South Kivu, as well as the local  civil society in Katanga, North Kivu, and South Kivu. In addition, HP  representatives visited tantalite and cassiterite mines in Katanga,  wolfram and cassiterite mines in Rwanda, and gold and cassiterite  mines in South Kivu. Finally, HP and other PPA representatives met  with the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the DR  Congo (MONUSCO) Head of Operations in Bukavu to understand the  current situation with armed militias in the Kivu provinces.  Solutions for Hope project In 2011, HP announced its participation in Solutions for Hope, a  project led by major capacitor manufacturer, AVX Corporation. One  of the prime uses of tantalum is in the manufacture of electrical  capacitors.	Solutions	for	Hope	has	achieved	the	first	validated	 source	of	conflict-free	tantalum	ore	from	the	DRC	through	a	closed	 pipe	supply	chain	stretching	from	a	mine	free	from	conflict	inter- ference to a validated smelter.  The	first	delivery	of	conflict-free	tantalum	took	place	in	November	 2011.	After	processing	by	a	validated	conflict-free	smelter,	it	will	be	 used	to	manufacture	the	first	DRC	conflict-free	tantalum	capacitors.	 HP commends AVX for its leadership on this issue and intends to  incorporate	AVXs	conflict-free	tantalum	capacitors	in	HP	products	 when the capacitors become available. We believe it is appropriate  to use our purchasing power as a market incentive for expansion of  similar initiatives. HP visited the mines, and the processing, warehousing, and  smelting locations of the closed pipe Solutions for Hope project  and observed how each of the below-listed parties has an impor- tant role to play in a responsible mineral supply chain:   	Mining co-op that coordinates the miners and provides equipment  and training 	Mining company that owns title to the mining concession,  purchases the minerals from the miners, supports the traceability  of the transactions, and enables the concentrating and export of  the minerals in a legal and transparent nature 	International Tin Supply Chain Initiative (iTSCi) employees who  provide the independent tracking of the minerals produced  	Agents who work on behalf of the DRC government issuing iTSCi  tags and verifying the iTSCi-reported totals 	Division of Mines that supports exporting minerals out of the DRC 	AVX, the corporation that has committed to purchase the tantalite  at agreed prices The on-the-ground review of this project revealed how a successful  and responsible mineral supply chain can be created in the DRC. Influencing policy and legislation HP	supported	the	inclusion	of	the	conflict	minerals	clauses	in	the	 Dodd-Frank Act, which require disclosure of the use of tungsten,  tantalum, tin, and gold originating in the DRC. We believe these provi- sions will facilitate greater transparency in supply chains and reduce  the	trade	in	minerals	that	fund	armed	conflict	in	the	DRC.	However	 well-intentioned the regulation, implementation has challenging  HPs program manager Jay Celorie inspecting the tantalite crushing and homogenization processing  at Kalemie Warehouse in Katanga, DRC.  90 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society implications. For example, to comply, many companies are likely to  eliminate trade from the DRC sources altogether, damaging that  countrys economy and worsening conditions for its people.  HP is seeking to reduce the adverse economic impact of the   Dodd-Frank Act on the people of the DRC. We are advocating for  implementation mechanisms that should encourage continued  trade with the DRC. During 2011, HP played a leading role in developing consensus  comments and recommendations from a multi-stakeholder group of  NGOs and socially responsible investors on this issue. These  comments and recommendations were submitted to, and discussed  with, the SEC.   HP also supports the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and  Developments	(OECD)	due-diligence	guidance	on	conflict	minerals.	 HP is participating in a 1-year pilot program to test implementation  of the OECDs guidance and will provide feedback to the OECD  through a series of three questionnaires and in-person multi-  stakeholder meetings. Next steps During	2012	we	will	continue	progressing	toward	conflict-free	 minerals by tracing the smelters in our supply chain and publishing  relevant details. We will encourage those smelters to participate in  the CFS by giving preference to sourcing from smelters validated as  conflict	free. We will continue our support for the CFS program and also for  efforts	to	establish	validated	in-region	conflict-free	sourcing	 through the PPA and Solutions for Hope project.  91 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Supply chain  responsibility HP is one of the worlds largest technology companies and has one of the industrys most  extensive supply chains. Comprising more than 1,000 production suppliers1 and tens of  thousands of nonproduction suppliers, it spans 6 continents, more than 45 countries and  territories, and many cultures.  Our supply chains breadth and depth is a foundation of HPs success, but it also brings chal- lenges. We embrace our opportunity and responsibility to use our scale, purchasing power,  and experience to help our suppliers improve their social and environmental responsibility  (SER)	standards	and	performance.	Through	these	efforts,	we	work	to	help	improve	the	lives	 of hundreds of thousands of people worldwide who make products for the information  technology (IT) industry and support our operations. HP has a long history of working with suppliers to improve their SER performance, as well  as improving overall processes and standards in the industry. Since we launched our supply  chain	SER	program	in	2000,	it	has	been	a	core	part	of	our	global	citizenship	efforts.	During	 that time, we have been a leader in the industry on many fronts (see below). HP supply chain SER firsts 	First IT company to develop and implement a supplier SER code (2002) 	One	of	the	first	IT	manufacturers	to	perform	on-site	supplier	SER	audits	(2004) 	Founding member of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) (2004) 	First electronics company to publish a list of our suppliers (2007) 	First major IT company to publish its aggregated supply chain greenhouse gas (GHG)  emissions (2008)  Highlights 1,000+ Production suppliers, some with multiple sites 250,000+ Workers at sites audited in 2011 that produce   HP products 52+   million Number of printers shipped by HP in 2011 62+ million Number of PC units shipped by HP in 2011 1 HP uses the term direct suppliers in other sections of this report to include both production suppliers that provide materials for HP  products and nonproduction suppliers that provide services related to HP products.  92 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Our program focuses on production and nonproduction suppliers.  We address the full range of SER issues, and also focus targeted  programs on issues such as working hours, womens health, and  conflict	minerals. We complement extensive and rigorous auditing  with innovative and collaborative capability building initiatives. We  also collaborate with suppliers at the end of the product life cycle,  through our global network of vendors in 67 countries and territo- ries that collect, process for resale, and/or recycle returned  products. Our hardware recycling and reuse standards cover the  storage, handling, and processing of returned electronic equipment.   In 2011, our key achievements included:  	Launched our audit program for nonproduction suppliers 	Demonstrated improvements in suppliers audit performance  following participation in our capability building programs  	Further expanded our supply chain SER audit program to Australia  and Turkey 	Reached 760 supplier audits since the start of our program HP employees making an impact: Ernest Wong Ernest Wong helps HPs suppliers improve their social and environ- mental performance. His work includes training supplier managers  and employees on workers rights, antidiscrimination, and energy  efficiency.	Learn	more	about	Ernest Wong on page 146. Moving forward We are proud of our progress to date, but our work is ongoing. This  is due to the changing nature of the supplier landscape, shaped by  economic and geopolitical forces, the ongoing globalization of  technology	manufacturing,	the	consolidation	of	existing	firms,	the	 emergence of new markets, as well as increasing external stake- holder awareness and engagement. We continually seek innovative ways to approach SER issues and to  extend	the	impact	of	our	efforts.	Our	history	and	experience	 provide us the perspective, data, and relationships to thoughtfully  evaluate	and	refine	our	program	over	time.	 While established methods of addressing supply chain issues such  as auditing and capability building will remain central to our  approach, we intend to continue to innovate beyond traditional  programs	to	effect	lasting	change.	For	example,	we	plan	to	extend	 our engagement with multi-stakeholder organizations, including  Social Accountability International (SAI) and the Dutch Sustainable  Trade Initiative (IDH), to provide independent assessments and  targeted capability building as a way to improve supplier manage- ment systems and worker-manager dialogue. (See Addressing Key  Issues for more information.) In addition, we continue to expect  suppliers to provide increasing levels of transparency. As we gain experience, we strive to make our program even more  effective	in	pursuit	of	our	values:	to	protect	workers	rights	and	 dignity, to ensure strong health and safety standards, to reduce  environmental impacts, and to uphold the highest standards of  business ethics. HP supply chain SER milestones Year Description Region Type of  event 1992 HPs first supplier questionnaire distributed HP surveyed its global suppliers for the elimination of ozone-depleting substances. Global HP 1993 Procuring Environmentally Responsible Materials (PERM) program implemented PERM	preceded	HPs	supply	chain	SER	program	and	included	HPs	first	supplier	environmental	 requirements. Global HP 1998 HPs environmental procurement policy and General Specification for the Environment   (GSE) released We communicate materials restrictions to our design teams and to our manufacturing suppliers  through our GSE. Global HP 2000 Supply chain SER program launched We launched our supply chain SER program with a long-term vision to help improve supplier  labor management standards, human rights, and environmental performance.  Global HP  93 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Year Description Region Type of  event 2001 Monitoring sources of tantalum from capacitor suppliers began HP obtained letters from capacitor suppliers stating that they were not using tantalum   sourced from the DRC.  Africa HP 2002 HPs first Global Citizenship Report published HPs	first	Global	Citizenship	Report	outlined	our	commitment	to	improving	social	and	  environmental performance over the next decade. Global HP 2002 HP Supplier Code of Conduct rolled out HP	was	the	first	electronics	company	to	publish	an	SER	Supplier	Code	of	Conduct. Global HP 2003 HPs supplier self-assessments began Suppliers began self-assessments against our Supplier Code of Conduct requirements. Our target  was	to	assess	our	top	40	suppliers	by	the	end	of	the	2003	fiscal	year.	We	achieved	that	goal. Global HP 2004 EICC formed The EICC fosters responsible management and operational practices in labor, human rights,  ethics, the environment, and health and safety across the electronics industrys global supply  chain. (See Collaboration on page 108.)  HP was one of the founding members of the EICC and codeveloped the Electronic Industry Code  of	Conduct.	HP	has	supplemented	the	EICC	Code	with	additional	requirements	specific	to	 freedom of association. See HPs EICC Code of Conduct. Global Cross- industry 2004 HPs first supplier audit performed We completed 45 pilot audits in 2004, against a public goal to complete 30 during the year. China,  Mexico,  Southeast  Asia, and  Eastern  Europe HP 2005 HPs first supplier SER forum held in China HP	held	the	first	SER	forum	for	regional	Chinese	suppliers	to	review	and	discuss	HPs	SER	and	 Restriction of Hazardous Substances requirements. Around 330 representatives from various  suppliers participated. China HP 2006 Capability building program launched HPs capability building program commenced with the Focused Improvement Supplier Initiative,  a program that provided 30 HP suppliers with the tools and resources to improve SER manage- ment within their facilities. Since then, our initiatives have covered multiple issues, including  worker health, communication, environment, and antidiscrimination. (See Capability building on  page 110.) Global HP 2007 Health and safety capability building efforts launched HP joined the HERproject to raise awareness of the general and reproductive health needs of  women working in manufacturing. (See Capability building on page 110.)  Mexico Multi- stakeholder 2007 Kicked off capability building efforts focused on raising SER awareness through direct   training of supplier workers HP piloted a training program to directly train supplier employees in worker-management  communications. The program helped workers better understand their labor rights and   provided an independent workers grievance hotline for communicating concerns about their  working environment. China Multi- stakeholder  94 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Year Description Region Type of  event 2008 Comprehensive list of HP suppliers disclosed We	were	the	first	electronics	company	to	publish	a	list	of	our	suppliers	in	our	FY07 Global  Citizenship Report.  Global HP 2008 Suppliers GHG emissions reported HP	became	the	first	major	IT	company	to	publish	its	aggregated	supply	chain	GHG	emissions,	 representing	86%	of	our	first-tier	suppliers	by	spend.	We	increased	that	percentage	to	95%	for	 calendar year 2010. Global HP 2009 Working hours key performance indicators (KPIs) program launched HP piloted supplier use of KPIs to help reduce excessive working hours in the supply chain.   (See Working hours KPIs.)  China HP 2009 Conflict minerals program launched HPs conflict	minerals program was launched, broadening the scope of our work to focus on  tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold mined in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Africa HP 2009 First capability building program to reach multiple tiers of HPs supply chain HPs	year-long	program	with	hard	disk	drive	suppliers	in	Thailand	was	the	companys	first	effort	 to reach multiple tiers of our supply chain. The program raised awareness of HPs EICC Code,  facilitated best practice sharing among supplier management, and supported their implementa- tion of SER-related management systems. Thailand Multi- stakeholder 2009 Supply chain SER program expanded to nonproduction suppliers Originally focused only on production suppliers, HPs supply chain SER program expanded to  also include nonproduction suppliers. (See Our approach on page 96.)  Global HP 2010 First joint Validated Audit Process (VAP) audits performed The VAP is designed to eliminate duplication and audit fatigue by providing a common auditing  approach for companies in the electronics industry. This allows for audit results to be shared by  multiple customers of one supplier. (See Audit strategy.) Global Cross- industry 2010 Environmental sustainability capability building efforts kicked off HP became the only information and communication technology company to join Energy  Efficiency	Partnership	(EEP),	a	year-long	pilot	program	designed	to	help	major	suppliers	in	China	 reduce energy use, GHG emissions, and costs. Through the EEP, HP expanded supplier capability  building	efforts	to	environmental	improvement. China Multi- stakeholder 2011 First HP nonproduction supplier audit performed HP	performed	our	first	audits	of	nonproduction	suppliers,	auditing	three	facilities	in	China,	India,	 and Mexico. (See Summary audit results on page 99.) In 2011, HP surpassed 750 cumulative  audits	since	our	first	audits	in	2004. China,   Asia	Pacific,	 North  America HP  95 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society International Labour Organization (ILO)  Declaration on Fundamental Principles   and Rights at Work HPs supply chain SER program promotes the core labor standards  as stated in the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and  Rights at Work (1998): 	Freedom	of	association	and	the	effective	recognition	of	the	right	 to collective bargaining. Learn more. 	Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Learn more. 	Effective	abolition	of	child	labor.	Learn more. 	Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and   occupation. Learn more in Capability building on page 110. HPs EICC Code of Conduct and General  Specification for the Environment Throughout this section, we refer to HPs EICC Code of Conduct,  rather than simply the EICC Code of Conduct, the standard applied  across the industrys global supply chain. In 2004, we co-led the  development of the EICC Code. HP endorses the EICC Code in its  entirety, but we have supplemented it with additional requirements  specific	to	freedom of association (standard A7). We support the rights of workers at our supplier facilities to asso- ciate freely on a voluntary basis, seek representation, join or be  represented by works councils, and join or not join labor unions   and bargain collectively as they choose as established by local law. We require all suppliers to conform to HPs EICC Code, and comply  with our General	Specification	for	the	Environment, which includes  substance and materials requirements for parts and components  that are used in HP products, packaging, and manufacturing  processes. (See Materials on page 36 for more information.) Long-term SER relationship Lite-ON case study Lite-ON, a Taiwan-based manufacturer employing 35,000 people  and with 45 factories globally, has supplied HP with various prod- ucts and parts for more than 10 years. The company has been a  long-time	participant	in	HPs	SER	program.	HP	first	audited	Lite-ON	 in	early	fiscal	year	2004,	one	of	the	first	supplier	audits	performed	 in the electronics manufacturing industry. At that time, Lite-ON  demonstrated awareness and knowledge of HPs SER expectations,  but lacked various documented SER policies and procedures.  Working closely with HP, the company has pursued SER perfor- mance improvements ever since. It has regularly taken part in HPs  capability building programs, such as Chinese Worker Rights  Training,	the	Energy	Efficiency	Partnership	program,	Hepatitis	B	 awareness training, the HERproject, and predeparture training (see  Capability building on page 110 for more information). In 2012,  Lite-ON will participate in the Dutch Sustainable Trade Initiatives  effort	to	improve	labor	conditions	at	electronics	factories	in	the	 Pearl River Delta region of China (see Collaboration on page 108). Lite-ON has also capitalized on learning opportunities provided by  our collaborative audit process, and the companys progress is  encouraging. On average, the number of major nonconformances  discovered in full re-audits at the companys sites decreased 35%  compared with initial audits at the same sites. Moreover, initial  audits	at	Lite-ON	sites	in	2011	identified	nearly	45%	fewer	major	 nonconformances than initial audits at the companys sites. HP  awarded Lite-ON the Supply Chain SER Performance Improvement  Award at our 2011 Supplier Summit in San Diego, California, United  States, recognizing its involvement in our capability building  programs and its conformance with HPs EICC Code. The	company	has	also	increased	transparency	significantly	during	 the last several years, and has published a corporate social responsi- bility report annually since 2008 (HP encourages suppliers to do so).  The most recent version achieved Application Level A+ of the Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Lite-ON,	among	a	number	of	other	suppliers,	exemplifies	the	effec- tiveness of long-term participation in HPs supply chain SER program.  96 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Our approach Through HPs supply chain social and environmental responsibility  (SER) program, we work with our high-risk supplier sites, as well as  other stakeholders, to improve labor standards, human rights, and  environmental performance. The collaboration includes: 	Risk assessments These help us prioritize the extent to which we  engage with suppliers through our supply chain SER program.  Suppliers also complete a self-assessment questionnaire to help  us identify SER performance risks.   Capability building Through programs and partnerships with  nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), training partners,  governmental organizations, and suppliers, we help supplier  management and workers improve SER performance.  	Measuring performance Our audit program and input from third  parties (see Collaboration on page 108) identify issues and help  us target areas of concern to improve supplier SER performance. 	Stakeholder engagement HP engages with stakeholders to under- stand and respond to issues of concern regarding supply chain SER. Concerns with respect to emerging issues in the information tech- nology (IT) industry, such as conflict	minerals and migrant labor,  have highlighted the need to increase work with lower-tier  suppliers to improve SER performance. Collaboration across the IT  industry, and with other industries, helps us achieve this objective.  Supplier management system HPs four-phase supplier management system (see graphic below)  provides an overarching framework for suppliers to progress  through our supply chain SER program. We focus our resources  according to risks posed by supplier activities. The system aims to  improve long-term SER performance by building suppliers capabili- ties. Since our SER program began, all of our key production  suppliers have completed the introduction and assessment stages. The gap between introduction and assessment represents supplier  sites that pose low risk. The gap between assessment and valida- tion represents sites whose self-assessments indicate they are low  risk. The increases in introduction and assessment starting in 2009  and 2010 are largely due to the expansion of our program to  nonproduction suppliers. The following pages explain each step in  the four-phase supplier management system. Introduction  HP conducts preliminary risk  assessment  SER requirements conrmed in  contract Capability building  Identify key education areas  Build suppliers capability in key  areas by enhancing their skills,  toolset, and expertise Number of suppliers reaching each phase, cumulative 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Introduction Assessment Validation and improvement Capability building Assessment  Suppliers complete  self-assessment  HP review and feedback Validation and improvement  On-site audits  Corrective actions, if required  Follow-up audits, if required Four-phase supplier management system  97 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Phase 1: Introduction HP	considers	supplier	risk	profiles	and	conducts	a	formal	risk	assess- ment	if	necessary.	We	then	confirm	SER	requirements	in	our	contract. We assess the following risk factors: 	Location Risk is higher in some locations than others. 	Procurement category Risk is higher in some procurement cate- gories, such as manufactured parts, components, and real estate  construction services, and lower in others, such as software  licensing, marketing services, and telecom services. 	Company information Insight from previous audits, press articles,  incidents,	or	accidents	may	affect	our	assessment	of	supplier	risk. 	NGO reports We consider information highlighted in NGO reports  and determine whether action is required. Our	first-tier	suppliers	(see	diagram	below)	select	and	manage	their	 own suppliers (HP second-tier suppliers). Phase 2: Assessment If HPs risk assessments show a supplier poses a medium or high  SER risk, it must complete a self-assessment questionnaire. These  help us identify potential SER performance risks, and help suppliers  understand our expectations for conformance to HPs Electronic  Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct. HP reviews  and provides feedback on the self assessment, and suppliers create  and implement an improvement plan, if required. Phase 3: Validation and improvement Validating conformance HP uses local internal auditing teams, backed by independent veri- fication.	We	use	three	types	of	audits: 	Audits conducted by HP employees. 	Audits conducted by an external organization to verify the results  of HP audits or to independently investigate allegations.  	Joint audits conducted by an external organization on behalf of HP  and other EICC member companies. This auditing methodology is  called the Validated Audit Process (VAP) and was launched in 2010.  It is designed to eliminate duplication by providing a common  auditing approach that encourages companies in the electronics  industry to share audits. We encourage our suppliers to use the  VAP as an independent assessment of their performance.  Responding to nonconformance  We rank levels of nonconformance to HPs EICC Code of Conduct as  major and minor using standard International Organization for  Standardization (ISO) guidelines. A nonconformance does not necessarily mean a violation has been  found.	It	could	also	mean	there	are	insufficient	management	 systems in place to prevent violations from occurring.  Major nonconformance	A	significant	failure	in	the	management	 system	that	affects	a	companys	ability	to	ensure	conditions	 conform to HPs EICC Code of Conduct or General	Specification	for  the Environment. Suppliers must demonstrate that they have  addressed major nonconformances within 180 days, by delivering  appropriate documentation or other evidence of resolution. Zero-tolerance items are the most serious type of nonconformance.  These include underage workers (below the local legal age for work  or apprenticeship), forced labor, health and safety issues posing  immediate danger to life or risk of serious injury, and perceived  violation of environmental laws posing serious and immediate harm  to the community. Our zero-tolerance policy requires auditors to  escalate such items immediately. Suppliers must rectify these items  no later than 30 days after the original audit. HP then re-examines  the zero-tolerance item between 30 and 90 days after the audit with  an	in-person	visual	verification	to	confirm	resolution	of	the	issue. Minor nonconformance Not a systemic problem and typically an  isolated	finding,	such	as	an	out-of-date	record	or	an	overdue	proce- dure that has not been revised, from an internal audit or a procedure  that	has	not	been	revised	to	reflect	a	change	in	regulations.	 Suppliers have up to 360 days to address minor nonconformances. Risk-based approach to supply chain SER 649 low-risk suppliers introduced or  assessed to date 35 (or more) new supplier sites  will be audited in 2012 188 suppliers audited through  2011; 50 (or more) will be  re-audited in 2012     HP supports rst-tier  suppliers in managing  second-tier suppliers HP and our rst-tier  suppliers encourage  second-tier suppliers to  manage their suppliers Second-tier  suppliers Third-tier  suppliers First-tier  suppliers  98 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Corrective action plans HP requires suppliers to provide a detailed  corrective	action	plan	addressing	all	identified	nonconformances	 (except zero-tolerance items, which are treated independently)  within 30 days of receipt of the site audit report. We review these  plans and request quarterly reports to monitor progress and subse- quent closure of nonconformances. When progress is inadequate,  we	intervene	to	help	create	a	more	effective	plan.	(See	more	in	 Detailed	audit	findings on page 102.) Phase 4: Capability building Remaining engaged with suppliers and providing support is as  important to our SER program as uncovering problems. Our capa- bility building programs include collaboration with suppliers on  key processes, such as reviewing corrective action plans, and  implementing training programs in conjunction with local nongov- ernmental organizations and training groups. If a supplier rejects the continual improvement approach, we empha- size that we will not tolerate serious or repeated violations of HPs  EICC Code and will terminate the relationship if needed. Terminating   a contract can mean the loss of jobs, so we prefer to collaborate   with suppliers to improve SER performance where possible. (See  Capability building on page 110 for more information.) Audit strategy We measure the SER performance of some suppliers using the  results of self-assessments, and of others using audits.  We use supplier audits to verify conformance with HPs EICC Code of  Conduct and to establish whether the supplier has systems in place  to facilitate continued conformance. We perform these audits  based on EICC tools. Audits enable HP to identify pressing issues  and build corrective action plans with suppliers to address those  issues, as well as helping us to prioritize issues to cover in our capa- bility building programs.  Where appropriate, we are increasing the use of the EICCs VAP.  Occasionally,	HP	initiates	a	VAP	of	a	supplier	to	verify	our	own	find- ings	or	investigate	specific	allegations. Collaborative audits Achieving suppliers cooperation is essential to creating lasting  improvement. We usually announce audits in advance and conduct  them in the presence of facility management. Although this could  allow	suppliers	to	present	an	artificially	positive	picture,	skilled	 local auditors speaking the native language of the region and our  robust audit methodology provide reasonable safeguards against  suppliers hiding issues, and we believe this level of collaboration is  an important aspect of building capability and helping management  understand the issues. Announcing audits also contributes to  building and maintaining strong relationships. Building suppliers audit capabilities We partner with some of our longer-standing suppliers to improve  their ability to audit their own suppliers. This forges a better under- standing of the requirements and processes needed to resolve  issues while encouraging greater ownership of the audit results and  of overall performance.  By building suppliers internal audit competencies, we allow our  auditors to focus more on capability building. All of our lead audi- tors have been trained as SER consultants to suppliers, helping  suppliers improve performance and strengthen their SER manage- ment systems. Internal collaboration and  governance Our	supply	chain	SER	governance	system	defines	responsibility	and	 reporting across HP businesses and functions. All HP businesses  support our supply chain SER program through the Supply Chain  Board, which meets regularly and reports directly to the HP  Executive Council. Supply chain governance structure  Nominating and Governance Committee  of the HP Board of Directors Supply Chain Board (Supply Chain Sr. VPs from  each HP business unit) Ethics and  Compliance Oce Supply Chain SER Program (sponsored by Supply Chain Board) Procurement organizations Audit team members from:  Global Procurement Services  Environmental, Health, and Safety Business and implementation support:  SER Business Unit Liaisons   (assigned by Supply Chain Board) HP Executive Council (includes CEO and heads of each  HP business unit and global function) Supplier  companies  99 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society SER and procurement from  production suppliers  The success of HPs SER program relies on the successful integration  of SER issues into our procurement function. Through ongoing rela- tionships with suppliers, HPs procurement team is uniquely  positioned to help build suppliers understanding of how HPs SER  requirements	translate	into	business	benefits.	These	relationships	 include quarterly supplier business reviews and day-to-day engage- ment in areas such as product quality, product delivery, business  continuity, and SER. Our procurement team is trained to undertake  SER performance evaluation, education, and mentoring. (See   Case study: HP procurement and supply chain SER on page 113.)  HP selects suppliers that agree to conform to the expectations and  standards	in	HPs	EICC	Code,	HPs	General	Specification	for	the	 Environment, and applicable laws and regulations, while meeting  our other business requirements. We use High-Performance  Supplier Scorecards (HPSS), which include SER parameters along- side traditional business and services criteria, to monitor the  performance of suppliers with HP business worth more than $10  million USD. Suppliers with which HP has business worth less than  $10 million USD are typically still included in the supply chain SER  program. We also include SER requirements in every purchase order  that we initiate with vendors.  We believe that better social and environmental standards lead to  higher-quality products. They also protect our reputation and the  continuity of our lines of supply by helping to ensure SER issues  do	not	adversely	affect	a	suppliers	production	capability.	We	 believe that the pressures of our sourcing requirements, such as  cost and deadlines, should not cause or encourage suppliers to  breach HPs EICC Code. Introducing nonproduction suppliers HPs supply chain SER program has historically focused on production  suppliers, which present the greatest SER risk. But since 2009, we  have expanded our program to include nonproduction suppliers. We  prioritize nonproduction suppliers to introduce to our SER program  based	on	the	suppliers	risk	profile	and	strategic	value	to	HP.	 In	2011,	we	completed	our	first	audits	of	nonproduction	suppliers.	In	 2012, we will focus on engaging more suppliers in high-risk countries. Supplier list HP	was	the	first	electronics	company	to	publish	a	list	of	suppliers.	 This	list	first	appeared	in	our	2007	Global	Citizenship	Report.	Our	 2011	list	includes	first-tier	suppliers	representing	more	than	95%	 of our production supplier spend. Publishing this list remains an  industry-leading practice. This year, we have added links when  available to more information about our suppliers SER programs. View a list of our production suppliers,	as	of	the	end	of	fiscal	year	 2011. Performance  Summary audit results The graph on the next page shows the growth of HPs supply chain  social and environmental responsibility (SER) audit program. As our  program matures, fewer suppliers enter it, so the proportional  increase of initial audits is lower. We conduct a higher proportion of  full	re-audits	to	encourage	continual	improvement.	This	reflects	our	 focus on supporting long-term SER performance improvements. Changes in analysis and comparisons Follow-up	audits	allow	HP	to	confirm	that	nonconformances	discov- ered during initial audits are fully closed, while full re-audits show  how the supplier has improved management systems and  programs over time. Whereas previously we compared suppliers  performance between initial audit and follow-up audit, we now only  compare initial audits with full re-audits. The analysis in this  section	therefore	differs	from	previous	years. The graph on the next page shows that rates of minor and major  nonconformance against HPs Electronic Industry Citizenship  Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct decreased between 2005 and  2011. We attribute this continual improvement to our validation  system, with its focus on collaborative audits and corrective  actions,	and	our	efforts	to	build	our	suppliers capabilities.  100 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society SER audits conducted, 2007–2011 [total, cumulative] 0 200 400 600 800 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007    Initial audits 204 236 261 294 329   Follow-up audits 144 220 291 319 339   Full re-audits 6 30 39 68 92   Total 354 486 591 681 760 Distribution of audit findings, 2005–2011 [percentage of findings] 60% 60% 40% 20% 0% 20% 40% Major Minor No nonconformances No nonconformances Nonconformances Initial audit Full re-audit 80% 100%  101 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society The	chart	below	illustrates	the	effectiveness	of	our	validation	and	improvement	process,	which	involves	auditing	 supplier sites and requiring corrective actions. Across all provisions in HPs EICC Code, 80% of all nonconformances  identified	in	initial	audits	were	either	reduced	in	severity	or	confirmed	to	be	closed	in	subsequent	full	re-audits.	The	 chart also demonstrates that nonconformances have been easier to address for some sections of the code than others. The chart below shows the distribution of major nonconformances across the provisions of HPs EICC Code from   initial and full re-audits in 2010–2011. Health and safety and labor management account for the majority of   major nonconformances. Distribution of major nonconformances by section of   HPs EICC Code, 2010–2011* [percentage]    Health and safety 31%    Labor 27%    Labor and ethics management system 11%    Environment 10%    Environmental, health, and safety management system 9%    General 7%    Ethics 6%  * Graph includes only results from initial audits and full re-audits, for comparability. Nonconformances reduced by section of HPs EICC Code, 2005–2011* [percentage] 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Overall General Environmental, health, and  safety management system Ethics Labor and ethics management system Environment Labor Health and safety  *  Graph includes only results from initial audits and full re-audits, for comparability.  102 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society For	details	about	other	issues	identified	in	audits	and	HPs	response	 by region, see Detailed	audit	findings on page 102. Nonproduction supplier audit results In	2011,	HP	performed	the	first	three	audits	of	our	nonproduction	 suppliers. These were call center service providers in China and  Mexico, and a technology service provider in India. In China and  Mexico, audit results showed labor issues to be less prevalent  among nonproduction suppliers than production suppliers. In India,  reports from nongovernmental organizations and media have  alleged serious social and environmental issues in the facilities of  electronics suppliers, including nonproduction suppliers. The audit  we conducted of a supplier in that country, however, showed a high  level of conformance to HPs EICC Code.  Detailed audit findings * Locations with audits Locations without audits Americas 20%  of total spend  Europe, Middle East, and Africa 10%  of total spend Asia Pacic 70%  of total spend * Information	in	map	and	audit	findings	relates	to	production	suppliers	only. In 2011, HP conducted 79 supplier site audits (including initial  audits, follow-up audits, and full re-audits). Although not repre- sented in these tables, nonproduction supplier sites in China, India,  and Mexico accounted for three of these audits. See Nonproduction  supplier audit results (above) for an overview of these audits.  Significant issues Excessive working hours remain the most common issue in our  audits,	especially	in	Asia	Pacific	and	China.	In	2011,	we	also	found	a	 high number of major nonconformances related to emergency  preparedness. The primary causes of these major nonconfor- mances include issues related to evacuation drills and evacuation  routes/emergency exits. Responding to zero-tolerance items In 2011, HPs audits uncovered one zero-tolerance item. An HP  plastic component supplier completed a self-assessment question- naire that raised concerns related to worker living conditions. This  prompted HP to perform an audit of the supplier, which found that  workers dormitories at the supplier factory were being locked at  night.	This	was	identified	as	a	zero-tolerance	item	due	to	lack	of	 safety for workers.  Per HPs zero-tolerance policy, the situation required immediate  resolution. HPs audit team and representatives from HPs procure- ment team responsible for the relationship with the supplier  worked with the supplier to address the problem within days. The  supplier also attended HPs Migrant Worker training program to  further understand the EICC Code requirements, including those for  workers dormitories.  103 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Global findings EICC Code provisions Rate of nonconformance  in sites audited* Major Minor General EICC Code awareness 5% 13% Compliance with laws 2% 2% Supplier management program 27% 29% Labor Freely chosen employment 9% 30% Child labor avoidance** 2% 52% Working hours*** 66% 13% Wages	and	benefits 29% 30% Humane treatment 4% 30% Nondiscrimination 16% 13% Freedom of association 2% 11% Labor management system Overall 13% 0% Health and safety Occupational safety 20% 54% Emergency preparedness 48% 34% Occupational injury and illness 18% 39% Industrial hygiene 20% 34% Physically demanding work 9% 55% Machine safeguarding 7% 30% Dormitory and canteen 16% 32% Environmental health and safety management Overall 9% 0% EICC Code provisions Rate of nonconformance   in sites audited* Major Minor Environmental Environmental permits and  reporting 4% 5% Pollution prevention and resource  reduction 5% 9% Hazardous substances 20% 59% Wastewater and solid waste 0% 9% Air emissions 4% 4% Product content restrictions (See Materials on page 36.) Ethics Business integrity 4% 11% No improper advantage 4% 9% Disclosure of information 0% 2% Intellectual property 2% 2% Fair business, advertising, and  competition 4% 5% Protection of identity 14% 13% Community engagement 0% 0%   * 	This	data	reflects	the	results	of	HPs	initial	audits	and	full	re-audits	conducted	in	2011.	It	does	not	 necessarily represent results from the same supplier sites reported on in previous years.  ** A major nonconformance in the underage worker provision of HPs EICC Code does not necessarily  indicate	the	presence	of	child	labor.	For	example,	an	auditor	may	uncover	insufficient	manage- ment systems and age checks to prevent child workers from being employed. These would be  considered a major nonconformance, but do not necessarily signify the presence of workers under  the	legal	minimum,	or	the	minimum	age	specified	by	HPs	EICC	Code.	While	there	were	nonconfor- mances uncovered in 2011, no child labor was uncovered.  *** A major nonconformance in the working hours provision of HPs EICC Code indicates that at least  one of the following requirements was not met:     		The	average	hours	worked	in	a	workweek	over	the	last	12	months	at	the	facility	did	not	exceed	 60 hours or the legal limit (whichever is stricter).    	Workers	are	allowed	mandated	breaks,	holidays,	and	vacation	days	to	which	they	are	entitled.    	Workers	are	provided	with	at	least	1	day	off	per	7	workdays	on	average.  104 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Greater China findings The	major	issues	identified	during	audits	in	Greater	China	included	 emergency	preparedness	and	working	hours.	Wages	and	benefits	 was also an issue, although to a lesser extent. Since 2009, we have asked certain supplier sites in China with major  nonconformances related to working hours to report monthly key  performance indicators (KPIs) that track the average number of  hours worked and the amount of overtime. (See Working hours KPIs  for more information.) Our capability building programs in China also enhance awareness  of labor rights, helping employees raise concerns with regard to  wages	and	benefits. Audits conducted in 2011 Location Initial  audits Follow-up  audits Full  re-audits Number of  workers at  sites audited China  17  7 11  188,900 Total  17  7 11  188,900 EICC Code provisions Rate of nonconformance  in sites audited* Major Minor General EICC Code awareness 0% 18% Compliance with laws 0% 4% Supplier management program 25% 29% Labor Freely chosen employment 11% 29% Child labor avoidance** 0% 61% Working hours*** 75% 18% Wages	and	benefits 39% 46% Humane treatment 7% 29% Nondiscrimination 21% 7% Freedom of association 0% 4% Labor management system Overall 14% 0% EICC Code provisions Rate of nonconformance   in sites audited* Major Minor Health and safety Occupational safety 25% 54% Emergency preparedness 54% 36% Occupational injury and illness 11% 32% Industrial hygiene 29% 46% Physically demanding work 7% 79% Machine safeguarding 4% 25% Dormitory and canteen 25% 36% Environmental health and safety management Overall 0% 0% Environmental Environmental permits and  reporting 7% 7% Pollution prevention and resource  reduction 7% 4% Hazardous substances 18% 61% Wastewater and solid waste 0% 4% Air emissions 4% 0% Product content restrictions (See Materials on page 36.) Ethics Business integrity 4% 11% No improper advantage 0% 7% Disclosure of information 0% 0% Intellectual property 0% 0% Fair business, advertising, and  competition 0% 4% Protection of identity 7% 11% Community engagement 0% 0%   * This	data	reflects	the	results	of	HPs	initial	audits	and	full	re-audits	conducted	in	2011.	It	does	not	 necessarily represent results from the same supplier sites reported on in previous years.   ** A major nonconformance in the underage worker provision of HPs EICC Code does not necessarily  indicate	the	presence	of	child	labor.	For	example,	an	auditor	may	uncover	insufficient	manage- ment systems and age checks to prevent child workers from being employed. These would be  considered a major nonconformance, but do not necessarily signify the presence of workers under  the	legal	minimum,	or	the	minimum	age	specified	by	HPs	EICC	Code.	While	there	were	nonconfor- mances uncovered in 2011, no child labor was uncovered.  *** A major nonconformance in the working hours provision of HPs EICC Code indicates that at least  one of the following requirements was not met:     		The	average	hours	worked	in	a	workweek	over	the	last	12	months	at	the	facility	did	not	exceed	 60 hours or the legal limit (whichever is stricter).    	Workers	are	allowed	mandated	breaks,	holidays,	and	vacation	days	to	which	they	are	entitled.    	Workers	are	provided	with	at	least	1	day	off	per	7	workdays	on	average.  105 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Asia Pacific findings In	Asia	Pacific,	our	audits	identified	working	hours	and	emergency	 preparedness	as	significant	issues.	We	will	use	working	hours	KPIs	to	 address the working hours issue based on our experience in China.  We track KPIs from suppliers with major working hours nonconfor- mances in China to better understand the extent of the problem and  solutions to reduce the instances of major nonconformances.  Audits conducted in 2011 Location Initial  audits Follow-up  audits Full  re-audits Number of  workers at  sites audited Australia 1 0 0 200 Indonesia  0  2 0  3,100 Malaysia  5  3 1  14,500 Philippines  1  0 1  3,900 Singapore  3  0 1  1,500 Thailand  0  1 1  13,900 Total  10 6 4 37,100 EICC Code provisions Rate of nonconformance  in sites audited* Major Minor General EICC Code awareness 21% 7% Compliance with laws 7% 0% Supplier management program 21% 14% Labor Freely chosen employment 14% 36% Child labor avoidance** 7% 50% Working hours*** 86% 7% Wages	and	benefits 29% 14% Humane treatment 0% 43% Nondiscrimination 21% 14% Freedom of association 7% 36% Labor management system Overall 21% 0% EICC Code provisions Rate of nonconformance   in sites audited* Major Minor Health and safety Occupational safety 29% 14% Emergency preparedness 43% 29% Occupational injury and illness 21% 50% Industrial hygiene 14% 21% Physically demanding work 0% 21% Machine safeguarding 14% 29% Dormitory and canteen 7% 50% Environmental health and safety management Overall 36% 0% Environmental Environmental permits and  reporting 0% 0% Pollution prevention and resource  reduction 0% 14% Hazardous substances 21% 57% Wastewater and solid waste 0% 14% Air emissions 7% 0% Product content restrictions (See Materials on page 36.) Ethics Business integrity 7% 7% No improper advantage 14% 0% Disclosure of information 0% 7% Intellectual property 0% 0% Fair business, advertising, and  competition 14% 0% Protection of identity 14% 14% Community engagement 0% 0%   * This	data	reflects	the	results	of	HPs	initial	audits	and	full	re-audits	conducted	in	2011.	It	does	not	 necessarily represent results from the same supplier sites reported on in previous years.  ** A major nonconformance in the underage worker provision of HPs EICC Code does not necessarily  indicate	the	presence	of	child	labor.	For	example,	an	auditor	may	uncover	insufficient	manage- ment systems and age checks to prevent child workers from being employed. These would be  considered a major nonconformance, but do not necessarily signify the presence of workers under  the	legal	minimum,	or	the	minimum	age	specified	by	HPs	EICC	Code.	While	there	were	nonconfor- mances uncovered in 2011, no child labor was uncovered.  *** A major nonconformance in the working hours provision of HPs EICC Code indicates that at least  one of the following requirements was not met:     		The	average	hours	worked	in	a	workweek	over	the	last	12	months	at	the	facility	did	not	exceed	 60 hours or the legal limit (whichever is stricter).    	Workers	are	allowed	mandated	breaks,	holidays,	and	vacation	days	to	which	they	are	entitled.    	Workers	are	provided	with	at	least	1	day	off	per	7	workdays	on	average.  106 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Europe findings The audits uncovered major nonconformances in health and safety  provisions such as emergency preparedness, occupational injury and  illness,	and	physically	demanding	work.	Despite	these	findings,	 suppliers in Europe have made strong improvements in social and  environmental responsibility (SER) performance. For example, 2011  audits	resulted	in	significant	decreases	in	the	number	of	findings	 related to pollution prevention and resource reduction compared  with 2010. Audits conducted in 2011 Location Initial  audits Follow-up  audits Full  re-audits Number of  workers at  sites audited Czech  Republic  2  2  3  5,200 Hungary 0  1  1  1,900 Poland 0 1 0 700 Turkey 1 0 0 200 Total 3  4 4  8,000 EICC Code provisions Rate of nonconformance  in sites audited* Major Minor General EICC Code awareness 0% 0% Compliance with laws 0% 0% Supplier management program 29% 43% Labor Freely chosen employment 0% 14% Child labor avoidance** 0% 29% Working hours*** 14% 0% Wages	and	benefits 14% 29% Humane treatment 0% 14% Nondiscrimination 0% 14% Freedom of association 0% 0% Labor management system Overall 0% 0% EICC Code provisions Rate of nonconformance   in sites audited* Major Minor Health and safety Occupational safety 0% 100% Emergency preparedness 29% 43% Occupational injury and illness 29% 29% Industrial hygiene 14% 0% Physically demanding work 29% 14% Machine safeguarding 14% 29% Dormitory and canteen 0% 0% Environmental health and safety management Overall 0% 0% Environmental Environmental permits and  reporting 0% 0% Pollution prevention and resource  reduction 0% 0% Hazardous substances 0% 71% Wastewater and solid waste 0% 0% Air emissions 0% 14% Product content restrictions (See Materials on page 36.) Ethics Business integrity 0% 0% No improper advantage 0% 0% Disclosure of information 0% 0% Intellectual property 0% 0% Fair business, advertising, and  competition 0% 0% Protection of identity 14% 29% Community engagement 0% 0%   * This	data	reflects	the	results	of	HPs	initial	audits	and	full	re-audits	conducted	in	2011.	It	does	not	 necessarily represent results from the same supplier sites reported on in previous years.  ** A major nonconformance in the underage worker provision of HPs EICC Code does not necessarily  indicate	the	presence	of	child	labor.	For	example,	an	auditor	may	uncover	insufficient	manage- ment systems and age checks to prevent child workers from being employed. These would be  considered a major nonconformance, but do not necessarily signify the presence of workers under  the	legal	minimum,	or	the	minimum	age	specified	by	HPs	EICC	Code.	While	there	were	nonconfor- mances uncovered in 2011, no child labor was uncovered.  *** A major nonconformance in the working hours provision of HPs EICC Code indicates that at least  one of the following requirements was not met:     		The	average	hours	worked	in	a	workweek	over	the	last	12	months	at	the	facility	did	not	exceed	 60 hours or the legal limit (whichever is stricter).    	Workers	are	allowed	mandated	breaks,	holidays,	and	vacation	days	to	which	they	are	entitled.    	Workers	are	provided	with	at	least	1	day	off	per	7	workdays	on	average.  107 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Latin America findings Major nonconformances were found in relation to emergency  preparedness;	however,	the	rate	of	occurrence	of	these	findings	has	 decreased since 2010. Suppliers in Latin America have improved  their performance against health and safety, labor, and environ- mental provisions of HPs EICC Code compared with 2010. Audits conducted in 2011 Location Initial  audits Follow-up  audits Full  re-audits Number of  workers at  sites audited Brazil  2  1 5  11,300 Mexico  0 2 0  5,700 Total  2  3 5  17,000 EICC Code provisions Rate of nonconformance  in sites audited* Major Minor General EICC Code awareness 0% 14% Compliance with laws 0% 0% Supplier management program 43% 43% Labor Freely chosen employment 0% 43% Child labor avoidance** 0% 43% Working hours*** 43% 14% Wages	and	benefits 0% 0% Humane treatment 0% 29% Nondiscrimination 0% 29% Freedom of association 0% 0% Labor management system Overall 0% 0% EICC Code provisions Rate of nonconformance   in sites audited* Major Minor Health and safety Occupational safety 0% 86% Emergency preparedness 57% 29% Occupational injury and illness 29% 57% Industrial hygiene 0% 57% Physically demanding work 14% 71% Machine safeguarding 0% 57% Dormitory and canteen 14% 14% Environmental health and safety management Overall 0% 0% Environmental Environmental permits and  reporting 0% 14% Pollution prevention and resource  reduction 14% 29% Hazardous substances 43% 43% Wastewater and solid waste 0% 29% Air emissions 0% 14% Product content restrictions (See Materials on page 36.) Ethics Business integrity 0% 29% No improper advantage 0% 43% Disclosure of information 0% 0% Intellectual property 14% 14% Fair business, advertising, and  competition 0% 29% Protection of identity 43% 0% Community engagement 0% 0%   * This	data	reflects	the	results	of	HPs	initial	audits	and	full	re-audits	conducted	in	2011.	It	does	not	 necessarily represent results from the same supplier sites reported on in previous years.  ** A major nonconformance in the underage worker provision of HPs EICC Code does not necessarily  indicate	the	presence	of	child	labor.	For	example,	an	auditor	may	uncover	insufficient	manage- ment systems and age checks to prevent child workers from being employed. These would be  considered a major nonconformance, but do not necessarily signify the presence of workers under  the	legal	minimum,	or	the	minimum	age	specified	by	HPs	EICC	Code.	While	there	were	nonconfor- mances uncovered in 2011, no child labor was uncovered.  *** A major nonconformance in the working hours provision of HPs EICC Code indicates that at least  one of the following requirements was not met:     		The	average	hours	worked	in	a	workweek	over	the	last	12	months	at	the	facility	did	not	exceed	 60 hours or the legal limit (whichever is stricter).    	Workers	are	allowed	mandated	breaks,	holidays,	and	vacation	days	to	which	they	are	entitled.    	Workers	are	provided	with	at	least	1	day	off	per	7	workdays	on	average.  108 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Working hours KPIs HP	is	making	a	concerted	effort	to	reduce	instances	of	excessive	 working hours in our suppliers facilities, as this is one of the main  sources of nonconformance in audits. HPs EICC Code requirement  states that workweeks are not to exceed the maximum set by local  law and, further, a workweek should not be more than 60 hours per  week, including overtime except in emergency or unusual situations.  Since 2009, we have required supplier sites in China with major  nonconformances related to working hours to report monthly KPIs  that track the amount of overtime and the number of days each  worker	has	off	per	week.	The	data	we	have	received	showed	that	 for 65% of those suppliers the average working week is less than  60 hours per week including overtime. Additionally, the number of  people working less than 60 hours per week has increased 10%  over the past 2 years. In particular, we have seen positive results  when	a	facilitys	management	has	acknowledged	the	benefits	of	 reporting and monitoring these KPIs.  Currently, more than 70% (by spend) of supplier sites in China with  major nonconformances related to working hours report monthly  KPIs to us, and we aim to increase that to 75% by the end of 2012.  In 2011, HP began verifying supplier KPI data as part of SER  supplier	audits.	We	did	not	find	any	inaccuracies	between	our	audit	 findings	and	the	self-reported	data	from	our	suppliers.	 Collaboration  The larger electronics manufacturers typically supply numerous  major brands. In the information technology (IT) supply chain, many  companies are both suppliers to and customers of each other.  Electronics	manufacturers	and	brands	therefore	benefit	from	 collaboration. It allows them to share best practices and resources,  standardize tools and processes, avoid duplication, and develop  consistent approaches to improving social and environmental  responsibility (SER) performance. Moreover, suppliers appreciation  of strong SER performance heightens when they receive a consis- tent message from many of their customers. HP also learns from the experiences of companies outside of   our industry. This collaboration generally occurs through multi- sector initiatives.  Examples of collaboration within our industry and across others  include: General 	Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) HP has been a  member of the EICC, with board representation, since 2004.  Through joint collaboration, the EICC has helped member compa- nies,	and	the	electronics	industry	as	a	whole,	achieve	significant	SER	 progress.	In	2011,	HP	benefited	from	EICC	collaboration	through: 	The collection of greenhouse gas emissions data for 95% of  suppliers by spend, as part of the EICCs carbon reporting system 	The launch of EICC-ON, a technology platform that helps  members store and share EICC Code of Conduct compliance data  from suppliers 	Supply chain best practice HP works with the Global Social  Compliance Program (GSCP)—a group of leading companies from  the retail, clothing, and food industries—to improve social and  environmental conditions in the supply chains of multiple sectors.  In 2011, the GSCP implemented a program to assist companies to  benchmark their systems, tools, and processes against existing  best practices. HP is using this program to drive ongoing improve- ment of existing supply chain SER practices. HP Director of Social  and Environmental Sustainability and Compliance Zoe McMahon  serves on the organizations board, and several HP representa- tives participate as working group members.  	Labor conditions in the Pearl River Delta The Dutch Sustainable  Trade Initiative	(IDH),	a	multi-stakeholder	effort,	aims	to	accel- erate sustainable trade by building impact-oriented coalitions of  leading multinationals, civil society organizations, governments,  and other stakeholders. In 2011, the IDH introduced a sustain- ability plan for 100 electronics manufacturers located in the Pearl  River Delta region in China, a heavily industrial area. The primary  goal of the plan is to improve working conditions at factories. HP  is helping to develop the plan and encouraging suppliers to  engage in IDH assessments.  Environment 	Energy Efficiency Partnership program HP works with BSR to  reduce the environmental impact of HPs product manufacturing  activities	by	creating	and	promoting	local	energy-efficiency	 programs at supplier factories in China. (See Manufacturing on  page 38 for more information.)  109 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Human rights 	Extractives issues HP led the establishment of the EICC Global  e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) Extractives Work Group on extrac- tives issues. HP was one of the leading member companies  contributing	to	the	development	of	a	conflict-free	smelter	valida- tion	program,	an	in-region	mineral	certification	system,	a	regional	 social support service, Organisation for Economic Co-operation  Development (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance, and a concept  paper for a public-private partnership. (See Conflict	minerals	on  page 87 for more information.) 	Global Business Initiative on Human Rights (GBI) HP is a  founding member of GBI. We aim to show leadership and raise  awareness of human rights issues within the business community  and to contribute to the development of practical approaches by  testing emerging best practices in our operations and supply  chain. (See Human rights on page 85 for more information.) Sharing experiences  Our	supply	chain	SER	program	staff	regularly	contribute	to	external	 publications and share our experiences with other organizations. In  2011,	these	efforts	included: 	The Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility (ICCR) report,  Social Sustainability Resource Guide: Building Sustainable  Communities through Multi-Party Collaboration, features HPs  collaboration with Hong Kong nongovernmental organization (NGO)  Students and Scholars Against Corporate Misbehavior (SACOM) to  develop labor rights training programs for workers. HPs former  director of Social and Environmental Sustainability and Compliance,  Judy Glazer, was a co-author of the report. 	The Hong Kong Productivity Council (HKPC), a quasigovern- mental organization, published Green and Ethical Procurement  Requirements, a global sourcing guidebook that references   HPs SER program as the pioneer and leader in green and ethical  procurement.  External monitoring  A number of third-party organizations, particularly NGOs, raise  concerns	regarding	specific	issues	in	the	electronics	industry	supply	 chain and aim to improve performance through producing assess- ment reports and direct contact with companies. This input is an  important barometer of current and emerging supply chain issues.  Notable external monitoring in 2011 included: Environment 	Climate Counts Company Scorecard HP ranked number two overall.  The ranking scores companies on climate-awareness building  among suppliers and partners, and companies use of life cycle  assessment to improve the environmental performance of their  products. HP was the leading company in the electronics sector.  Labor 	Labor rights in Mexico The Crisis that Never Went Away, Centro  de	Reflexin	y	Accin	Laborals	(CEREAL)	fourth	report	on	conditions	 in Mexican electronics factories, raised concerns about low wages,  absence of freedom of association, and temporary employment.  The report ranked HP as good (one of only two companies to  receive that ranking, the highest received by any company and one  ranking short of excellent, the highest possible ranking), based  on the number of incidents and their severity, our willingness to  engage	in	dialogue,	our	efficiency	in	resolving	cases,	structural	 changes made to improve working conditions, and worker  testimonies.  	Migrant worker mistreatment in Malaysia Several reports in  2011 alleged mistreatment of migrant workers in the electronics  industry in Malaysia. The allegations included: 	GoodElectronics, an NGO dedicated to improving the environ- mental and social performance of electronics companies,  published	a	report	profiling	a	Malaysia-based	HP	supplier.	The	 report alleged that the supplier was mistreating migrant  workers, withholding passports, enforcing excessive working  hours, and overlooking certain health and safety issues. HP  investigated the claim with the supplier, reviewed the companys  corrective action plan, and conducted a full follow-up audit that  confirmed	resolution	of	the	issues.	 	Malaysian media reported that an HP supplier had illegally  employed migrant workers without working permits, after the  Malaysian Director General of Immigration delayed the approval  of these permits. Subsequently, the Director General released a  statement	confirming	that	the	Immigration	Department	will	 issue permits in a timely manner and that workers should hold  on to their passports. To raise awareness of the issue among suppliers, HP held a training  program in August 2011 regarding the guidelines for employing  migrant workers. 	Poor working conditions in China NGO China Labor Watch (CLW)  released two reports regarding poor working conditions at elec- tronics manufacturing suppliers in China: 	One report alleged serious working condition issues at an HP  supplier, including discrimination; excessive working hours; no  paid sick, maternal, or marriage leave; and low wages. HP worked  with the supplier to implement a corrective action plan, and the  supplier committed to investing more resources into improving  conditions. The supplier now reports monthly key performance   110 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society indicators (KPIs) to HP, allowing both companies to more closely  monitor performance. The KPIs showed that the supplier elimi- nated excessive overtime during the last 6 months of 2012 and  that it complied with EICC Code requirements relating to working  hours throughout the last 2 months. 	A broader report, entitled Tragedies of Globalization: The Truth  Behind Electronics Sweatshops, investigated working condi- tions at nine electronics companies in China. HP was not one of  those nine companies featured in the report; however, we were  mentioned in it. Our supply chain SER program addresses many  of the issues that the report highlighted, such as working hours,  labor contracts, and discrimination.   	Supply Chain Ethics and Values Prize The Confederation of  Industrial Chambers of Mexico (CONCAMIN), a business group,  awarded HP the Supply Chain Ethics and Values Prize for the third  consecutive year. The award, presented by Mexican President  Felipe	Caldern,	recognizes	best	practices	in	Mexico	in	engaging	 suppliers in SER initiatives.  Human rights 	Corporate challenges in repressive regimes and conflict zones  Swedish business relations NGO Swedwatchs report, Passive  Observers or Active Defenders of Human Rights? discussed the  positive impact of HPs supply chain SER program, focusing on  workers rights training.  Capability building While HPs audits help to assess the application of social and envi- ronmental responsibility (SER) standards and performance at  supplier factories, they are only one part of our program. We also  work with suppliers to deliver substantial and lasting SER perfor- mance improvements on a broad range of issues. Creating lasting  change, however, takes time. Our suppliers must not only improve  their management capabilities, but also often challenge a prevailing  culture. Our work builds knowledge and strengthens processes,  educating employees throughout supplier organizations. We aim to  instill behavioral changes that shift less developed practices away  from historical norms toward ever-improving SER performance. Supplier	capabilities	are	built	most	effectively	through	collabora- tion. HP works with local nongovernmental organizations (NGOs)  and training groups to deliver our programs. These are directed  toward supplier management and workers, and address general  awareness of HPs Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC)  Code of Conduct, ethics, labor, health and safety, environment, and  management systems. Demonstrating results The graphs on the following pages illustrate performance improve- ments made by suppliers that have participated in HP capability  building programs. These suppliers have shown greater decreases  in the number of major nonconformances found in full re-audits  (across all audit categories) than suppliers that did not participate.  Since HP began working with suppliers on capability building  programs in 2006, we have: 	Carried out 19 programs in 9 countries on topics such as antidis- crimination,	energy	efficiency,	labor	rights,	and	womens	health 	Engaged about 60% of production suppliers (by spend) 	Impacted approximately 2,500 managers and 136,000 workers 	Trained about 150 second-tier suppliers 	Confirmed	performance	improvements	by	suppliers	engaging	in	 capability	building	programs,	as	verified	by	audits	 Introducing new suppliers We introduce new suppliers to our supply chain SER program each  year and hold supplier education forums to communicate our SER  expectations. In 2011, we held 10 events in China. As our relationships with suppliers develop, we work to instill good  practices among lower-tier suppliers as well. HP has trained more  than 150 second-tier suppliers through programs conducted jointly  with	our	first-tier	suppliers.  111 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society HPs capability building   initiatives 2011 Below are examples of our main capability building programs in 2011. EICC Code of Conduct awareness Supplier forum in China Audience: Management (more than 180 participants from   90 suppliers) We held a 2-day supplier meeting in China, which communicated our  expectations and requirements regarding HPs EICC Code to suppliers.  Verite, one of our larger, long-term training partners, facilitated a  day-long training session on enhancing management systems. We  also invited suppliers and specialists to share best practices and  experiences from previous capability building initiatives such as the  HERproject	and	our	Energy	Efficiency	Partnership	program.	 Labor and ethics Hepatitis B anti-discrimination program Audience: Workers and management (70,000 workers at 15 facilities)  Partner: Inno Community Development Organisation HP considers hepatitis B (HBV) tests in employee hiring processes to  be violations of the nondiscrimination provision of HPs EICC Code.  We have held training programs in China since 2009 to raise aware- ness of hepatitis B and eliminate discrimination. In 2011, we  expanded the program, reaching approximately 50,000 workers in  addition to 20,000 the prior year. Through handouts and on-site  promotions, we educated employers about the risks of discrimina- tory practices and improved workers understanding regarding the  spread of HBV. Facilities that have taken part in the Hepatitis B anti- discrimination program have reduced the number of major  nonconformances found in full re-audits by about 30% on average,  compared with an average decrease of 10% for all other suppliers  in the same region. HBV training participation and SER performance, 2007–2011  (average number of major nonconformances) 0 2 4 6 10 All other suppliers  in same region Suppliers participating  in HBV training Full re-audit Initial audit 8 Gender Equity Model (Modelo de Equidad de Genero—MEG)  Certification Program  Audience:	Management	(six	suppliers	trained	and	certified)  Partner: Instituto Nacional de las Mujeres Led by the Instituto Nacional de las Mujeres in Mexico, a govern- ment	institution,	MEG	trains	and	certifies	suppliers	on	management	 systems related to gender equality and harassment. The main  objective of this model is to encourage companies to adopt nondis- crimination policies and avoid harassment in the workplace. HP  invites suppliers to take part in the program. Migrant labor training Audience: Management (33 managers from 19 suppliers)  Partner: Monitoring Sustainability of Globalization In response to rising issues regarding the use and treatment of  migrant workers in Southeast Asia, HP delivered best practice  training to senior managers of suppliers in Malaysia and Singapore.  HPs supply chain SER team shared HPs new guidelines for  employing migrant workers and carried out a gap analysis of  suppliers in the region to determine where the guidelines were not  being used. HP plans to place more focus on management systems  for migrant workers in audits during 2012.  Predeparture training Audience: Facility and school trainers (180 trainers from 3 training  centers)  Partner: Labour Education and Service Network (LESN) NGOs have raised concern about suppliers in China recruiting labor  from vocational schools under the pretense of internships to learn  technical skills. Reports suggest these young workers are instead  used as unskilled labor for manufacturing. In addition to our work  to improve understanding of HPs EICC Code, we have implemented  predeparture training for suppliers and schools to address the  issue. This teaches facility and school trainers how to prepare  interns for work life, including knowledge of labor rights and occu- pational health, and how to adapt to city life. Each participant  received a guide on how to deliver the training. In 2011, sessions  were held in three areas across China. We reached more than  23,400 graduates and interns through the program. (See  Perspective: So Sheung on page 113 and Goals: society on   page 166 for more information.) So Sheung Chief Executive, LESN So worked with HP to help  suppliers and schools educate  interns about labor rights,   occupational health, and other  issues. Read Sos full perspec- tive on page 113.  112 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Worker management communications Audience: Management and workers (more than 15,000 manage- ment and workers from 17 facilities)  Partner: Xin Shi Min Zhi Jia (Chinese NGO) HP introduced our worker management communications training in  2008. The program continues to help workers better understand  their labor rights and how they can raise grievances about their  working environment. We also provide training to workers repre- sentative committees. Facilities that have taken part in worker  management communications training or other labor rights aware- ness training have reduced the number of major nonconformances  found in full re-audits by about 30% on average, compared with a  15% decrease on average for all other suppliers in the same region. Worker management communications and SER performance,   2007–2011 (average number of major nonconformances) 0 2 4 6 8 All other suppliers  in same region Suppliers participating  in labor rights training Full re-audit Initial audit Health and safety Health Enables Return (HER) project Audience: Workers (approximately 30,000 workers at 10 supplier  sites in China and Mexico since 2008)  Partner: BSR The HERproject addresses the general and reproductive health  needs of women working in manufacturing in a range of industries,  including electronics. The program focuses on AIDS and sexually  transmitted disease prevention, birth control, peer education, and  demonstrating	the	business	benefits	of	encouraging	worker	health	 and development. HP began participating in the project in Mexico in  2008 (working with Pegatron and Foxconn). In 2011, the third year  weve run the program in China, we worked with eight suppliers  sites, reaching more than 26,000 female workers.  Facilities that have taken part in the HERproject have reduced the  number of major nonconformances found in full re-audits by about  49% on average, compared with an 8% decrease on average for all  other suppliers in the same region. HERproject participation and SER performance, 2007–2011  (average number of major nonconformances) 0 2 4 6 8 All other suppliers  in same region Suppliers participating  in HERproject Full re-audit Initial audit Job stress prevention Audience: Workers (16 suppliers)  Partner: Hong Kong Workers Health Centre HP hosted sessions to encourage frontline workers to become  involved in improving their own working conditions, a preventative  measure aimed at reducing stress. Sessions on work stress  management informed workers about the Mental Health Action  checklist, which contains guidelines for workers to help them main- tain a healthy, reduced-stress working environment. The instructor  was a well-known occupational health professional who previously  served as the director of Working Conditions and Environment at  the International Labour Organization (ILO). In 2012, we will ask  workers to evaluate their own mental health and occupational  health issues.  Environmental Energy Efficiency Partnership program Audience: Management  Partner: BSR In	2011,	HP	continued	working	with	the	BSR	Energy	Efficiency	 Partnership program in China to help major suppliers reduce energy  use, cut greenhouse gas emissions, and lower costs. See  Manufacturing on page 38 for more information. In 2012, we  plan to expand our role by partnering with the World Wildlife Fund,  adding resources and extending the reach of the initiative to addi- tional companies. Program participation will total 34 suppliers and  50 sites across China, up from 8 suppliers and 12 sites in 2011. Management systems Toward sustainable compliance Audience: Management (35 managers from 32 suppliers)   Partner: Western Digital  In 2011, HP expanded our hard disk drive supplier SER program to  include suppliers in Malaysia, having previously only focused on  suppliers	in	Thailand.	HP	and	key	first-tier	suppliers	use	the	 program to raise awareness of HPs EICC Code. The program also  facilitated best practice sharing among supplier management   113 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society while supporting them to implement SER-related management  systems.	The	2011	training	included	HPs	first-,	second-,	and	 third-tier suppliers.  Hard disk drive supplier SER program implementation Audience: Management (90 managers from 27 suppliers)   Partner: Western Digital  In	2011,	HP	ran	a	program	to	help	first-tier	suppliers	prepare	for	an	 EICC Code of Conduct audit. The program covered topics including  documentation and the importance of worker and management  interviews, while also allowing suppliers to share experiences  regarding challenges and opportunities.  See descriptions of our historical capability building initiatives in  our 2008, 2009, and 2010 Global Citizenship Reports. Case study: HP procurement and supply  chain SER HPs procurement organization manages the companys relation- ships with its suppliers. This involves a high level of ongoing  interaction. Our procurement employees share guidance and exper- tise with supplier representatives, which contributes to HPs  success as well as to the advancement and maturity of suppliers.  This close communication includes a focus on supplier social and  environmental responsibility (SER). Kinnar Ghiya, director of  Strategic Sourcing and part of the Operations organization with  HPs Imaging and Printing Group (IPG), says that establishing a  supplier base that shares our recognition of the importance of SER  is crucial to HPs ongoing success.   To make this happen, HP includes SER considerations in all engage- ment with suppliers—from contractual language to scorecards that  assess a suppliers overall performance (see SER and procurement).  Suppliers take seriously SER concerns raised by our procurement  employees. And, Ghiya notes, suppliers appreciate HPs focus in this  area. Suppliers know that HP invests considerable resources and  time to improve supplier accountability and performance with  regard to SER. They appreciate the support that HP procurement  professionals provide to get things right. A recent supplier SER concern that HP has helped to address is  migrant workers in Southeast Asia. Due to the rapid growth of the  electronics manufacturing industry in Southeast Asia, facilities  increasingly employ migrant workers. According to some reports,  migrant workers may be unfamiliar with their rights and language  barriers may prevent them from communicating freely. HP works to educate suppliers about these and related risks. We  stress the importance of conducting thorough SER risk assess- ments, developing management tools to help prevent issues from  arising, and promptly addressing issues when they do arise. We  also hold workshops and speaking events to convene suppliers to  learn from HP and external experts, as well as from each other.  For example, in 2011 HP held a training program to inform  Malaysian suppliers of the appropriate guidelines for employing  migrant workers (based on the EICC Code as well as Foreign Migrant  Worker rules and other requirements) and to share best practices.  Thirty-three managers from 19 suppliers participated in the event,  at which Ghiya delivered a keynote address. HP plans to continue to  focus in this area during 2012. See Capability building on page 110  for more detail.  Perspective: So Sheung Note from HP: During the last several years, NGOs have raised  concern about suppliers in China recruiting labor from vocational  schools under the pretense of internships to learn technical skills.  Reports suggest these young workers are instead used as unskilled  labor for manufacturing. We have implemented predeparture  training for suppliers and schools, which teaches facility and school  trainers how to educate interns about issues such as labor rights  and occupational health, and how to adapt to city life. In 2011,  sessions were held in three areas across China: Chongqing,  Guangzhou, and Wuhan. We reached more than 23,400 graduates  and interns through the program. HP is also involved in the  Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Asia Steering Committee  student workers project. The initiative is working to review the  status of student workers in the supply chain, summarize the legal  requirements for employing student workers, and implement guide- lines to drive compliance in this area.  We asked So Sheung, Chief Executive, Labour Education and Service  Network (LESN), to speak about the issue and HPs activities in   this area.  114 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society So Sheung Chief Executive, LESN Q: Why are companies in China hiring students from technical  schools more regularly? A: Students	make	up	a	large	and	highly	flexible	labor	pool.	Official	 statistics from 2009 state that more than 17 million students  were registered in more than 10,000 technical schools, and  about 7 million graduate annually. All technical school students  are	required	to	fulfill	a	1-year	internship	or	placement,	and	most	 of them are sent to electronics manufacturing facilities. The  internships are agreed to between schools and employers. Any  school can send several hundred students to internships in one  facility with only a few weeks lead time.  Students in internships are not regarded as formal workers  under Chinese labor law, so some factories use student workers  to lower costs. Q: What are the expectations of a young worker taking a job with a  company like those that supply HP? A: Younger generation workers are more aware of labor rights.  Unlike their parents, who typically returned to their home loca- tions, younger workers expect to stay in the cities where they  find	jobs.	Work	satisfaction,	job	prospects,	respect,	and	quality	 of life are as important to them as their salaries.  Q: What are the objectives of predeparture training?  A: The objective of predeparture training is to better prepare  workers for living and working in new cities. It aims to: 	Improve students awareness of labor rights and laws, occupa- tional health and safety, reproductive health and hygiene, sexual  harassment, and HIV/AIDS prevention, among other issues. 	Improve students self-esteem and psychological preparation  for working in cities. 	Improve students self-preservation skills and awareness. We hope to train teachers and factory personnel to better under- stand student workers. This way, employers can provide suitable  training and work environments for students, help prepare them  for the type of work they will be doing, and inform them about  students rights associated with this work. However, it can be  challenging	to	find	good	teachers	for	the	program. Q: Can you explain the importance of HPs role in providing this  training?  A: The use of student workers is highly problematic in China. One  of the major risks is schools violating regulations and sending  students under 16 to work in factories. HP is a crucial business  partner for factories. HP raises student worker issues to facto- ries by spreading awareness through this training.  Q: What impact has HP had through its involvement?  A: HP has successfully introduced or increased awareness of  issues relating to student workers to a few major suppliers,   and instigated several large-scale training programs. Q: What else could HP do? A: We expect the issue of student workers to continue to raise  social	concerns	in	China.	It	would	be	beneficial	for	HP	to	take	  an even stronger role in alleviating this growing problem. HP has focused on initial induction trainings for teachers and  personnel. HP could develop more in-depth programs with key  suppliers and provide more comprehensive training for voca- tional	school	teachers.	HP	could	also	evaluate	the	effectiveness	 of this model to understand how much awareness has been  raised among student workers. Q: How do you plan to evolve the program in the future? A: We would like to make the program more in depth, delivering  training to vocational school teachers over a longer, more inten- sive period at certain schools or factories. The program should  develop participatory evaluations with the workers receiving the  trainings for continuous improvement. Teachers participate in predeparture training.  115 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society LESN Established in 2001, LESN is an independent labor NGO aiming to  empower workers in mainland China. LESN provides a wide range of  services to numerous migrant workers in the Pearl River Delta  region, including labor dispute hotlines and support services,  worker awareness raising activities, in-factory training workshops,  hospital visits and support to industrial accident victims, and  various recreational activities. To increase public support for  migrant workers, LESN also publishes books on the poor conditions  of some workers in China. With support from various government  and university partners, LESN also organizes labor service projects  and advocacy conferences on labor-related regulations.  Feedback from training 	    (Factories need to better understand worker expectations.) 	   (The new generation of migrant workers must be handled  differently.)	 	   (Communications and training are crucial to decreasing   worker turnover.) Supplier diversity Register your interest in becoming a supplier to HP. Diverse suppliers bring innovation to HPs supply chain, helping us  gain a competitive advantage while supporting our global citizen- ship	efforts.	HPs	Global	Supplier	Diversity	program	helps	create	a	 supply chain that is diverse, inclusive, and global—similar to our  customers and employees.  HP	has	maintained	a	Global	Supplier	Diversity	Office	for	more	than	 40 years. We belong to more than 20 supplier diversity organiza- tions in Asia, Canada, Europe, and the United States. Our supplier  diversity program supports minority-, woman-, veteran-, lesbian-,  bisexual-, gay-, and transgender-owned businesses, and small  businesses	generally,	to	compete	for	HP	business.	We	offer	diverse	 supplier development programs, access to technology solutions,  and educational scholarships.  Supplier	diversity	is	mandatory	for	fulfilling	contracts	with	many	 government agencies around the world. Increasingly, large enter- prise customers also expect HP to demonstrate a commitment to  supplier diversity. In 2011, we estimate that more than $12 billion  USD	of	contracts	required	HP	to	demonstrate	our	efforts	in	this	area. Global supplier diversity We continue to expand our supplier diversity program beyond the  United States into Asia, Canada, and Europe. Our work with govern- ments	and	others	establishes	appropriate	regional	definitions	of	 diversity	that	reflect	local	society	and	culture. In	2011,	we	maintained	our	financial	sponsorship	of	the	Canadian  Aboriginal and Minority Supplier Council (CAMSC), WEConnect  International, and Minority Supplier Development UK (MSDUK),   and became corporate members of Minority Supplier Development  China (MSD China) and the Australian Indigenous Minority Supplier  Council (AIMSC).  As the program has expanded globally, it has gained more recogni- tion across HP. Employees are using diverse supplier events around  the world to engage with customers more regularly. Diverse supplier events HP hosts events with local business councils and participates in  regional and national events that introduce diverse suppliers to  potential customers. In 2011, HP procurement professionals partic- ipated in more than 20 such events in Australia, Canada, China, the  United Kingdom, and the United States. In the United States these included: 	Business matchmaking HP collaborated with SCORE, a resource  partner with the U.S. Small Business Administration, to sponsor  the	multicity	Business	Matchmaking	program,	offering	small	busi- nesses the chance to participate in governmental and major  corporate procurement opportunities. These events have facili- tated more than 75,000 seller-to-buyer meetings. 	HP Connect These summits provide several hundred prescreened  small and minority- and women-owned businesses the chance to  speak face to face with HP commodity managers and targeted HP  tier-one suppliers. In Shanghai, China, HP participated in Increasing the Global Value  Chain—Multinational Corporation Perspectives on Going Green  and Diversity, presented by WEConnect International. HP staff  also convened meetings with the Australian Information Indus- tries Association, which supports government-focused small  business programs.  116 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Supplier development HP sponsors programs that help diverse suppliers sharpen their  business skills; enhance delivery, quality, and service; and compete  more	effectively	in	the	marketplace.	 These include: 	Diverse supplier development A mentor program designed to  foster long-term relationships between HP and select diverse  suppliers with whom we are already doing business. The program  provides professional guidance and support to the supplier. 	United States Public Sector Mentor-Protg The Department of  Defenses program helps small diverse suppliers compete for  prime contract and sub-contract awards by partnering with large  companies such as HP. 	Entrepreneurship education at Tuck School of Business   HP sponsors diverse entrepreneurs to attend Building a High-  Performing Minority Business, focusing on the development and  implementation of a customer-focused strategic plan, and  Growing the Minority Business to Scale, which focuses on strate- gies of organic growth, mergers and acquisitions, and   strategic alliances. HP Tier II Supplier Diversity  Reporting Initiative HP	recognizes	the	influence	we	have	beyond	our	first-tier	suppliers,	 and we encourage diverse purchasing practices throughout our  supply chain. The HP Tier II Supplier Diversity Reporting Initiative  requests that our primary suppliers use diverse suppliers when  fulfilling	their	contracts	with	HP,	and	report	the	amount	of	spending.	 See table below for more information. If you are an HP supplier that we have asked to participate in our  Tier II Supplier Diversity Reporting Initiative, please log in here. Performance Useful links U.S. government websites: 	Department of Defense 	General Services Administration 	NASA 	Small Business Administration 	Small Business Administration Pro-Net State and local sites: 	California Small Business and Disabled Veteran Business   Enterprise Services  Business agencies: 	National Minority Supplier Development Council 	Womens Business Enterprise National Council 	Minority Business Development Agency 	National Minority Business Council  U.S. Supplier Diversity purchasing results*, **, *** [$ million USD]   2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Small businesses [$ million USD] $3,106 $3,365 $3,691 $4,316 $4,400 Minority-owned businesses [$ million USD]**** $827 $733 Women-owned businesses [$ million USD]**** $861 $476   * All	figures	are	for	U.S.	purchases	from	U.S.-based	businesses.	  ** Data is for the 12-month period ending September 30 of the year noted.  *** Data beginning in 2009 includes HP Enterprise Services (formerly EDS) spending. Data prior to 2009 does not.  **** HP did not report this metric prior to 2010, so data before that year is not available. Beginning in 2011, we did not allow companies to be counted in both the minority- owned businesses and women-owned businesses categories, which decreased the total amounts compared with the prior year.   117 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Privacy People rely on information technology (IT) in many aspects of their daily lives. And when  they use IT, they expect to maintain their privacy and feel certain their personal information  is secure.  Many organizations use sophisticated systems to collect, aggregate, and analyze personal  information. These trends emphasize the need for companies to protect privacy while  providing any-time, any-place functionality. This	constant	use	of	data	makes	products	and	services	more	personalized,	convenient,	effi- cient, and widely available. However, it must occur with peoples full awareness and  understanding, to avoid fears that their data may be vulnerable to misuse. They question  whether	social	networking,	location-aware	services,	and	behavioral	profiling	and	targeting	 threaten their privacy and safety. Organizational accountability for handling personal information is critical. HPs privacy  strategy is based on transparency and choice. We continue to apply an accountability  approach to privacy in our business and embed the concept of Privacy by Design in our  products and services.  Effective	legal	frameworks	are	important,	but	many	privacy	laws	were	created	before	the	 widespread use of the Internet and sophisticated tracking technologies. It is often a  struggle for regulations to keep pace with emerging technologies. Governments worldwide  are taking steps to address this, and we remain heavily involved in shaping these new  privacy policies and frameworks. We encourage collaboration between nations and regions  to	promote	relevant,	well-defined,	and	consistent	rules. For more information about our commitment to privacy, read the HP Global Master  Privacy Policy. Leading the way in privacy  	HP	placed	first	among	technology	compa- nies and second overall in the Ponemon  Institutes 2011 Most Trusted Companies  for Privacy study among U.S. consumers. 	HPs	chief	privacy	officer,	Scott	Taylor,	 testified	at	a	hearing	on	privacy	of	the	U.S.	 Senate Committee on Commerce, Science,  and Transportation. HP employees making an  impact: Scott Taylor As	HPs	chief	privacy	officer,	Scott	Taylor	 and his team work to ensure the personal  data of HP customers remains secure by  integrating privacy and data protection  into HPs processes, products, and  services. Learn more about Scott Taylor  on page 145.   118 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Approach It is critical that organizations and their employees are held  accountable for the way they handle data and the potential risks  they may create. HPs approach is to create a chain of accountability  for data privacy and security throughout our processes.  HP teams work together to implement and monitor our privacy  program. We also collaborate with external partners to improve  privacy protection and related regulations worldwide. Accountability approach to privacy The HP Privacy Accountability Framework (see graphic) is a deci- sion-making model that helps our employees assess and manage  the risks associated with collecting and handling personal data.  This ensures that HP uses transparent practices and meets our  customers expectations. The framework goes beyond legal  requirements, also taking into account our company values, ethical  considerations, contractual agreements, and local cultures. The HP Privacy Advisor tool helps employees apply our privacy  standards by guiding them through a privacy impact assessment  and risk-management process. All employees who collect or use  personal information will use the HP Privacy Advisor tool to assess  their projects for compliance. In 2011, more than 99% of permanent employees completed  privacy training as part of our required Standards of Business  Conduct	course.	A	specific	HP	Privacy	Advisor	module	has	been	 developed that will be part of the course in 2012.  Employees in functions that routinely handle personal information,  such as human resources, marketing, and client services, receive  additional	privacy	training	specific	to	their	role.	 Privacy and Data Protection Board The HP Privacy and Data Protection Board (PDPB) is responsible for  privacy risk management at HP. It comprises executives from busi- ness units and functions throughout the company. The PDPB is part  of our overarching Ethics and Compliance governance structure and  meets quarterly. The PDPB assesses privacy risks facing HP each year, and then iden- tifies	appropriate	ways	to	mitigate	these	risks.	In	2011,	the	PDPB	 identified	the	following	four	risk	areas:	cloud	computing,	data	 sharing with partners, data deletion and destruction, and data  collected by HP products such as PCs and printers. We are  addressing the risks related to cloud computing by working with the  HP Cloud Services organization to incorporate Privacy by Design  into	our	cloud	offering.	We	have	also	added	a	new	PDPB	member	 who represents HP Cloud Services. Deployment of the HP Privacy  Advisor tool has helped to mitigate risks arising from data sharing  with partners, data collected by HP products, and data deletion and  destruction. We have set minimum standards for suppliers handling  information on data storage devices returned by HP customers. We  audit suppliers to ensure these standards are met.  Monitoring compliance HP	is	one	of	the	first	companies	to	have	established	an	internal	 audit and assurance program to monitor compliance with our  privacy	policies,	and	also	do	so	through	third-party	certifications,	 dispute-resolution mechanisms (for example, TRUSTe and Better  Business Bureau), and customer and employee feedback. Our Privacy Assurance program assesses internal compliance with  our privacy policies and standards, and tracks and mitigates risks  and potential noncompliance. The program covers all business  units and functions that collect, use, access, or store personal   information. In 2011, the Privacy Assurance program received   certification	from	our	Internal	Audit	organization.	 HP Privacy Accountability Framework Oversight Contextual approach Demonstration Commitment Solid policies,  management  commitment, and  full transparency Implementation Mechanisms to  ensure policies and  commitments  are put into effect  with employees Validation Monitoring and  assurance that  validate coverage  and effectiveness  of implementation Identification of risks and opportunities Integrated governance model Demonstrate capacity to internal and external stakeholders,  and individual data subjects  Management, Internal Audit, HP Board of Directors, trust agents, regulators,  consumers, customers, employees  119 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society All suppliers and third-party vendors who handle HP customer and  employee data are contractually bound to comply with the applicable  portions of our privacy policies and data security requirements. HP  Enterprise Services is responsible for handling clients personal data  and	defines	our	commitments	in	our	client	contracts. Employees	and	customers	can	contact	our	privacy	office	in	more	 than 30 languages with queries, concerns, or comments. We follow  detailed	protocols	to	ensure	we	handle	inquiries	and	requests	effec- tively, promptly, and appropriately. Privacy and our products and  services We use companywide product development standards to integrate  privacy and data protection into our new products and services—a  concept known as Privacy by Design. Our business groups also carry  out a privacy impact assessment for new products and services in  development using the HP Privacy Advisor tool and consultation  with	the	Privacy	Office.	 Examples of products and services with privacy features include HP  Enterprise Security products, whose Security Intelligence and Risk  Management (SIRM) platform protects enterprise customers appli- cations and IT infrastructures from sophisticated cyber attacks. In addition, scientists at HP Labs continue to work with our Privacy  Office	to	develop	new	ways	to	protect	privacy,	with	a	focus	on	data	 stored in the cloud. Examples of HP Labs research projects include  the long-running EnCoRe research collaboration into easy ways for  people to provide and revoke consent for the use of their personal  information, and our Trust Domains research into ways to share data  in	the	cloud	while	maintaining	data	confidentiality	and	integrity. External policy development New policy frameworks around the world are shifting organiza- tions legal responsibilities away from simply following rules to  demonstrating that they have the capacity to protect privacy and  effectively	manage	risks.	HP	works	closely	with	regulators,	 industry, and consumer advocates to contribute to the develop- ment of such frameworks.  Though	the	specific	requirements	of	each	framework	differ	by	 geography, all are based on well-established and recognized prin- ciples such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and  Development (OECD) privacy principles, so compliance with one  makes it easier for organizations to align their practices with the  others. This is leading toward greater global interoperability, which  benefits	organizations	and	improves	consumer	protection. European Union We remain one of only a few U.S.-based, multinational companies  that	have	been	granted	Binding	Corporate	Rules	(BCRs)	certifica- tion by European data protection authorities. BCRs demonstrate  that multinational companies have adequate programs and  processes in place to uphold the European Directive for Privacy  when	transferring	data	between	countries.	This	reduces	the	effort	 needed to comply with national laws within the European Union  (EU) and assures consumers that they are dealing with a highly  reputable organization.  In 2011, we continued our role as one of the Trusted Advisors to the  European Commission and data protection regulators as the regions  data protection framework is reviewed. We provided a detailed  response to the EUs public consultation on cloud computing,  emphasizing the need to streamline data protection rules and build  trust in the cloud. Asia Pacific In	2011,	the	Asia-Pacific	Economic	Cooperation	(APEC)	Ministers	of	 Trade endorsed the implementation of the APEC Cross-Border  Privacy Rules (CBPR) system to reduce barriers to information  flows,	enhance	consumer	privacy,	and	promote	interoperability	 across regional data privacy regimes. This includes a commitment  to implementing the CBPR system as one step toward further  opening markets and facilitating regional trade. HP remains actively  involved with the implementation of the CBPR system. Latin America We are providing guidance to several Latin American countries as  they introduce new privacy regulations. For example, HP has been  working with the Ministry of Commerce and business groups in  Colombia to contribute to the base law and secondary regulations  and provide industry comments. When implemented, this will be  the	first	of	a	new	generation	of	laws	that	integrates	traditional	 concepts of privacy with innovative new approaches such as  binding co-regulatory programs and binding corporate rules. HP  has provided similar consultation on the legislative process in  Mexico,	where	new	legislation	came	into	effect	in	2011. Global advocacy Our	Privacy	Office	has	continued	to	work	with	international	regula- tors and industry groups through the Center for Information Policy  Leadership	on	a	multiyear	project	to	define	what	it	means	for	a	 company	to	be	accountable	for	its	privacy	practices.	The	first	phase	 of this work identified	the	essential	elements of accountability and  the second phase defined	ways	to	measure	accountability. In 2011,  the third phase, sponsored by the Spanish Data Protection Authority,  described the governance model companies should adopt to imple- ment accountability in the marketplace.  120 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society HPs people are integral to the companys success. Recruiting, developing, and retaining the  best employees provides us with a competitive advantage, so we strive to create  supportive,	motivating	workplaces	where	everyone	can	flourish.	We	foster	a	culture	based	 on listening, sharing, inspiring, helping, and learning, and we regularly seek feedback on  how we can perform better. Our global workforce of nearly 350,0001 employees must be able to react and evolve as  rapidly as our industry and help us to anticipate future business needs. HP people are inno- vators and problem solvers, continually seeking new challenges. We support talent  development wherever we operate. Investing in people—from a wide variety of diverse  backgrounds—creates value for our business, customers, shareholders, local communities,  and society at large. Over the past year, HP has made extensive changes to improve employees work experi- ence.	We	also	launched	a	global	effort	to	determine	the	key	behaviors	and	actions	we	desire	 from a cultural perspective, engaging people from across the organization to receive as  much input as possible. Based on what we heard, here are a few of the actions we imple- mented across the company in 2011: HP people 1 As of October 31, 2011. Work environment   Tailored core work environment tools   and services to meet the needs of distinct  employee segments   Continued to provide enhancements to  virtual collaboration suite, especially  leveraging social networking functionality Building careers   Shifted	focus	to	filling	job	vacancies	  with internal talent   Allowed	managers	greater	flexibility	  in hiring decisions    Revised redeployment policies to provide  better opportunities for people to move  between HP roles  Rewards and benefits   Restored base pay to prereduction   levels for the vast majority of   employees	affected	by	base	pay	  reduction in February 2009    Increased funding and eligibility   for bonuses    Implemented a new Employee Stock  Purchase Plan    Launched a global wellness program Pride in HP   Featured employees in the 2011   recruitment campaign showcasing   their personal stories    Reaffirmed	HPs	commitment	to	  volunteerism, including by raising   awareness that every HP employee   may take 4 hours of company time   per month to volunteer  HPs success has   always been built on   its people—they are   our legacy and our  future. Their talent,  spirit, energy, and   drive are rivaled only   by their potential. —Tracy Keogh, Executive Vice President,  Human Resources, HP  121 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Employment policies Our	global	employment	policies	reflect	our	commitment	to	treat	all	 employees fairly and to promote a culture of integrity and ethical  decision-making everywhere we operate. Our policies often set a  more demanding standard than local laws or customs require. Our Standards of Business Conduct (SBC) is a resource for  employees and all those who represent HP. The SBC is based on our  shared values and represents the highest level of guidance.  Our	Best	Work	Environment	Policy	defines	the	standards	of	 personal conduct that we expect employees to meet to contribute  to a positive, productive work environment.  Our nondiscrimination policy outlines how we aim to maintain a  work environment free from discrimination. Our harassment-free work environment policy describes how we  strive to achieve an environment where customers, employees,  suppliers, business partners, visitors, and shareowners are treated  with dignity, respect, and courtesy. Our global citizenship policy lays out our company values of trust  and respect for the individual and conducting our business with  uncompromising integrity. Our Open Door Policy	reflects	our	commitment	to	open	communica- tions and a workplace where each persons voice is heard. Our Global Human Rights Policy commits us to fair treatment of all  employees wherever we operate, and to promote human rights  throughout our business. We provide employees with the ability to report policy violations  anonymously, and we fully investigate all issues raised. Engaging our people Everybody is connected through HPs  many collaborative avenues. These  connections promote an integrated global  workforce, which has taught me several  key lessons that I now want to share with  other employees. —Leo	Chan,	Planning	and	Operations	Lead,	Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	 Human Resources Global Operations, HP  An engaged workforce strengthens company performance.  Employees who are invested in HPs success are more likely to  perform well, promote our brand, and stay with HP. They also  enhance the quality of the relationships we build with our  customers, communities, and other stakeholders.   Employee engagement begins with a culture that is open and  collaborative. At every level of the organization we are committed  to fostering a level of openness and equality that is changing our  culture for the better. At company headquarters in Palo Alto,  California, United States, for instance, we have taken down the  walls	of	the	executive	offices	in	favor	of	an	open-plan	arrangement.	 We strive to engage people at all points, from the application and  hiring process to training and developing employees to maintaining  relationships with retirees after they leave HP. We aim to approach  every interaction with honesty and respect, treating everyone we  encounter with absolute integrity. Relationships are at the core of  what we do. We collaborate with people inside and outside of the  company, gathering insights and ideas that improve the way we do  business and serve our customers.  One critical component of engagement is to continually connect to  our people—we provide numerous forums and networks, collect  and respond to employee feedback, provide opportunities for  community	involvement,	and	offer	a	range	of	recognition programs.  Forums and networks Our employees often work across time zones and continents,   so virtual collaboration is essential.  Our people exchange ideas and views, and collaborate on better  ways of working, through online and in-person forums, as well as  Employee Resource Groups	(ERGs).	The	first	ERG	was	formed	more	 than 30 years ago and now there are more than 120 ERGs across  30 countries. Another employee group is the HP Sustainability Network, which  helps employees learn about and share environmental practices  that	can	benefit	the	company	and	the	planet.	It	includes	36	chap- ters worldwide with thousands of members. Learn more in  Employee engagement on page 23.  122 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Social media plays an increasingly important role in engaging  employees. Many employees use WaterCooler, an internal business  social networking platform, to stay connected and expand their  networks. HP Connections, another social networking platform,  specifically	supports	conversations	about	products	and	sales- related topics.  Employee feedback HP gathers employee feedback through formal and informal  channels. One of the most important is the annual Voice of the  Workforce (VoW) global survey, which provides an opportunity   for	individual	employees	to	influence	the	company	as	a	whole.	We	 expanded the VoW in 2011 to measure employees perceptions   of HPs identity in the marketplace, training and development  opportunities, and the connection between individuals and   HPs corporate objectives. During the year, 78% of all employees  took	part	in	the	confidential	VoW	survey,	available	online	in	  26 languages. This compared with 75% in 2010.  HP managers use VoW survey results to better understand  employees perceptions of their experiences at work by indentifying  favorable aspects of the environment and areas for improvement.  Results also help measure the impact of employee-related programs,  thereby providing critical feedback for ongoing improvements.  Following the VoW survey each year, leaders across the company  launch systematic action planning processes. Follow-up actions are  implemented at many levels in the organization: HP-wide, at the  business unit level, and within business groups. VoW actions for  2011 included development of a manager excellence training  program, improvements in the physical work environment, and  changes in technical support for employees.  The 2011 survey indicated that areas of strength include teamwork,  the relationship between employees and their immediate managers,  and integrity and ethical practices at all levels of the company. More  specifically,	employees	felt	the	company	performed	best	on	 treating employees fairly, managers speaking openly and  honestly even when the news is bad, and managers clearly  communicating ethical expectations. Opportunities for improvement included managements ability to  communicate a clear sense of direction, and employees feeling they  do not receive enough support to drive innovation. We are working  to address these issues. Since	the	survey	was	conducted,	our	new	chief	executive	officer	 (CEO), Meg Whitman, has communicated a clear and succinct  strategy, along with corporate priorities for 2012. A chief commu- nications	officer,	reporting	directly	to	the	CEO,	has	also	been	 appointed, with oversight of employee communications.  Regarding innovation, the CEO has publicly announced an intent to  boost research and development spending while limiting the size  of acquisitions. In addition to the VoW survey, HP regularly carries out targeted  surveys	to	seek	employee	feedback	on	specific	programs	or	issues.		 For	example,	the	staffing	organization	routinely	surveys	employees	 recruited into new roles from inside or outside of the company on the  quality	and	effectiveness	of	the	recruiting	and	onboarding	process. Open dialogue with leadership   Employees can ask questions of HP leaders and review answers to  common queries through the HP intranet Top of Mind feature, as  well as in all-employee meetings. Topics addressed in Top of Mind  relate to HPs business and strategy—issues of interest to the  global employee population. Employees can pose questions using  an online form or by making a video submission. Most	leaders	also	meet	regularly	in	town	halls	or	coffee	talks	to	 share information and respond directly to employee questions.  Recurring intranet features including Top of Mind and CEO  Perspective	offer	frequent	opportunities	for	top	executives	to	 communicate to the company and receive feedback. Employee volunteerism and giving HP people contribute their time, skills, and expertise to their  communities and also support our global social innovation  programs.	Many	employees	also	make	financial	contributions	to	 support	their	local	communities	and	assist	in	disaster	relief	efforts.	 In 2011, HP employees and retirees donated more than 744,000  hours to volunteer projects. That time spent giving back to commu- nities is valued at nearly $26 million USD.1  In 2011, HP employees in the United States donated cash totaling  approximately $3.8 million USD, matched by $3.1 million USD from  the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation.2 Since 2007, HP and  employees have donated $30 million USD through the program. In  addition,	U.S.	employees	can	donate	HP	technology	to	qualified	 charitable organizations or schools. For more information, see  Employee volunteerism and giving on page 152.  Retiree engagement Our approximately 85,000 retirees are important ambassadors for  HP. We stay connected with them through communications, social  networking, and the HP retiree website. In addition, HP plays an  active role in the HP Retiree Advisory Board and contributes content  to local retiree clubs across the globe.  1 Value	based	on	type	of	volunteering:	$150	USD	per	hour	for	board,	service	corp,	pro	bono,	and	skill-based;	$20	USD	per	hour	for	hands-on.	Uncategorized	hours	are	not	reflected	in	this	total. 2 The Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation will match up to $4 million USD in aggregate annually.  123 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Building careers To be successful in a multinational corpo- ration	with	a	broad	portfolio	of	offerings,	 you need to gain broad experience across  the organization. HP has given me oppor- tunities to grow in this area, and the  rewards have been multifold. —Kelly Tan, Managing Director and Vice President of Global Sales,   HP Singapore HP has a longstanding commitment to recruit, retain, and develop  the most skilled employees in our industry. Fostering the best  talent relies on providing extensive opportunities for continual  learning and growth. This takes place through activities including  training, mentoring, and leadership development. Recruiting talent We increasingly use social media to connect with potential recruits,  communicate our values, and show our commitment to global citi- zenship—important criteria for many jobseekers. Our HP Careers  presence on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn features content about  our culture and commitment to social innovation. Our YouTube  page includes brand and wellness videos to educate candidates  about	HPs	accomplishments	and	employee	benefits.		 In 2011, 13% of our hires came from universities, so university  recruitment is important to HP. Each year our businesses establish  targets to hire interns and university graduates, from a wide range  of backgrounds. They receive extensive training in many aspects of  our company and operations, and we make sure that they get to  know senior managers and build up a network of peers in their  chosen	field. During 2011, we increased our focus on developing internal talent  and promoting from within at all levels of the organization, as well  as on building a stronger leadership pipeline. Learning and development  HP	offers	all	employees	the	opportunities	and	resources	to	excel	in	 their jobs and prepare for new challenges. Our global presence and  networked workforce allow employees to learn from each other in  many	different	ways	and	across	a	wide	spectrum	of	specialties.	 We provide development opportunities through face-to-face  training, live virtual training, and self-directed online courses.   The vast majority of our training courses (93%) are delivered in  virtual sessions or self-paced online modules. These can reach  more	employees	and	allow	flexible	access	for	people	to	learn	 anywhere	and	anytime.	We	offer	more	than	10,000	courses,	  which employees used a total of 2.5 million times during 2011,   a 56% increase from 2010.  In 2011, we aligned our learning investment to business priorities  with increased focus on engineering and technology: 	Technical: 68%  	Sales: 21%  	Professional skills: 7% 	Leadership: 4% Employees also attend conferences, seminars, and training at  accredited	institutions,	often	receiving	technical	certifications. We continually assess how we can raise awareness of, and provide  access to, the most relevant learning and development opportunities.  Between 2009 and 2011, the percentage of respondents to our Voice  of the Workforce survey who replied that the learning opportunities  they need are available to them increased by 10 percentage points.   HP employees making an impact:   Shelley Jeffcoat Shelley	Jeffcoats	experience	mentoring	a	struggling	co-worker	 helped	her	realize	other	HP	employees	could	benefit	from	the	same	 kind of support. So she set out to create a peer-mentoring program  for her department thats since grown into a sitewide initiative.  Learn more about Shelley	Jeffcoat	on	page	139.  Learning communities Employees may opt to join more than 30 learning and professional  communities at HP to meet and interact with colleagues. Using  virtual platforms, they can participate in training, share experiences,  and gain access to tools, presentations, podcasts, and videos. Topics  include everything from global sales development to technical  career paths.    124 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Mentoring One of the best professional development resources available to   HP employees is the skills and expertise of their co-workers.   HP facilitates mentoring experiences through the Mentoring @ hp  intranet site, which contains advice and resources for both mentors  and those seeking mentors. In addition, the site provides a direc- tory of mentoring programs, which helps connect groups as diverse  as young employees, senior women leaders, and professionals in  finance,	human	resources,	and	sales	with	mentors	in	their	fields.	In	 2011, more than 4,500 employees participated in HPs formal  mentoring programs. Opportunities to broaden experience In 2011, we ran the Global Career Development Connection, a  companywide	online	event	through	which	employees	could	find	tips	 on how to build their HP professional network, learn about opportu- nities in other business units or functions, or just visit to get ideas  and inspiration. The event also provided an opportunity for  employees from all regions to chat live with human resources  representatives across the enterprise about how to develop their  careers. The event received a citation in the American Society for  Training & Developments 2011 BEST Awards, which recognize  excellence in workplace learning and performance.  To supplement formal training, learning by doing builds skills and  accelerates development. We encourage employees to pursue  hands-on experience through work-based learning opportunities  such as job rotations or new opportunities across business groups,  regions, and functional areas.  Leadership development The ability to think and act as a leader is crucial for every HP  employee, regardless of role. All employees have the opportunity to  complete a self-assessment against the HP leadership standards  and develop leadership skills through performance feedback,  learning and training resources, or working with a coach or mentor. HPs Executive and Leadership Development team designs and  implements leadership and management training for leaders at all  levels. In 2011, we increased the scale and reach of training. During  the year, 7,500 employees participated in various leadership  training sessions, including the HP Key Talent and Executive  Leadership Excellence programs. Focus areas addressed business  challenges,	strategic	thinking	and	planning,	financial	acumen,	and	 team leadership.  Leaders developing leaders continues to be part of our strategic  approach. In 2011, approximately 400 HP leaders directly  supported our leadership development programs and more than  12,000 employees attended our monthly Leading Ideas webcast  series, during which senior leaders provide insights on leadership  topics, share helpful tips and best practices, and link to resources  for HP employees.  Also in 2011, HP launched Leadership Development Central (LDC)   as a resource to search and source opportunities for self and team  development. LDC rapidly rose to the top 10 list of sites on the   @HP employee portal. The new Leadership Learning in a Box series  is the most recent addition to LDC through which team leaders  conduct 1-hour discussion sessions focusing on skill building and  managing and motivating teams. We also help leaders enhance their skills while supporting social  innovation initiatives in communities. In 2011, as part of HPs  intensive Key Talent program, individual teams of 5 or 6 HP vice  presidents brought their expertise and knowledge to 10 San  Francisco	Bay	Area	nonprofits	in	a	12-week	social	impact	business	 challenge. They provided pro bono recommendations to address  the	organizations	most	significant	business	challenges.	Leaders	 also worked with the Global Health Corps (see below). Collaboration with Global Health Corps During 2011, HP partnered with the Global Health Corps to launch a  pilot advisory program under which HP executives cross borders and  cultures to mentor the next generation of health leaders. Advisors  from	HP	offices	in	12	countries	were	matched	with	a	Global	Health	 Corps Fellow and worked on healthcare-related projects including  supply chain data analysis and pharmaceutical/medical consumable  forecasting	in	Rwanda,	helping	to	define	and	evaluate	requirements	 for an e-learning platform for clinical training materials in Uganda,  and creating case management plans and illness prevention educa- tion strategies for homeless teens in the United States.  Redeployment Redeployment increases the workforces ability to adapt, helps HP  maximize and develop talent, and aids in responding to employees  when ongoing business decisions such as restructuring and realign- ment impact their positions. Redeployment provides HP with the  alternative to deploy talent instead of reducing the workforce.  The redeployment program allows managers to match the compe- tencies and skills of eligible employees with current job openings.  Reassigning eligible employees to open positions within the  company helps HP retain internal talent and gives employees the  opportunity to apply their skills to other HP jobs. In 2011, HP proac- tively managed redeployment of employees impacted by divesture  decisions (such as Halo and Palm). One of the program changes  adopted in 2011 supported redeployment by helping to position  employees for internal job opportunities and accommodated earlier  employee engagement with our career-transition supplier.  We also revised the redeployment and rehire policy to be more  open,	giving	managers	greater	flexibility	in	hiring	decisions	and	  in facilitating employee job rotation.  125 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Diversity and inclusion Diversity and inclusion are key drivers of creativity, innovation, and  invention. Worldwide, HP is putting our diversity to work to connect  people to the power of technology in the marketplace, workplace,  and community. We are committed to building an inclusive work- place where all employees can contribute and be successful. generations language religion perspectives race experiences skills nationality culture physical abilities job level sexual orientation thinking styles ethnicity gender identity gender A	workforce	that	includes	men	and	women	from	different	nations,	 cultures, ethnic groups, generations, and backgrounds, with a wide  range	of	skills	and	abilities,	helps	us	to	understand	and	reflect	our	 customers values and demographics. A diverse workforce is also  vital to attracting and retaining the best employees. During 2011, we: 	Held	four	diverse	talent	summits	in	the	Americas,	Asia	Pacific,	 and Europe, at which more than 400 high-performing diverse  employees learned about leadership and business strategy  	Added	sexual	reassignment	surgery	benefits	to	a	number	of	our	 U.S. healthcare plans (coverage beginning in 2012) 	Added a provision to reimburse or gross up any U.S. income  taxes that apply based on coverage for domestic partners and  domestic partners children 	Delivered more than 150 Employee Resource Group (see below)  events that provided members with experiential leadership   development opportunities Policies Our diversity and inclusion policies and practices help foster a  positive work environment at HP. We expect and require every  employee to treat others with dignity, respect, and courtesy. We  do not, under any circumstances, tolerate discrimination or  harassment. We comply with diversity laws as basic minimum  requirements, and our policies often set a higher standard than is  legally required. We encourage employees to report suspected discrimination or  harassment by contacting local human resources departments or  using	our	confidential	and	anonymous	24-hour	GuideLine.	In	Canada	 and the United States, the GuideLine number is 1-800-424-2965.  For employees outside of North America, we publish numbers on   our intranet. Our	chief	diversity	officer	is	responsible	for	compliance	with	these	 policies.	Our	vice	president	and	chief	ethics	and	compliance	officer	 is responsible for the GuideLine. Working with diversity  organizations  HP has developed strategic partnerships with a number of organi- zations whose missions align with HPs strategy of developing a  diverse workforce and creating an inclusive work environment.   HP is a sponsor of Catalyst,	a	leading	nonprofit	organization	that	 works with businesses to build inclusive workplaces and expand  opportunities for women. HP has access to Catalysts global data- base of research, which we use to inform and support our diversity  and inclusion priorities. We also participate in Catalysts annual  awards dinner and attend many local events. HP has been a sponsor of Out & Equal Workplace Advocates  Workplace Summit for more than 10 years. Out & Equal is a  nonprofit	organization	dedicated	to	achieving	workplace	equality	 for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender employees and profes- sionals. At the summit, HP employees present workshops,  demonstrate HP products, and talk about job opportunities at HP. A	few	of	our	many	partners	in	our	diversity	and	inclusion	efforts	 include Anita Borg Institute, GettingHired, Leadership Education for  Asian	Pacifics,	Inc.,	National	Action	Council	for	Minorities	in	 Engineering, Professional Business Women of California, and  Simmons Womens Leadership Conference. Internal development opportunities In 2011, we sponsored leadership summits for employees around  the world with a broad focus on women and ethnic groups. These  summits help to build global business and leadership capabilities,  and demonstrate HPs commitment to grow and develop high- performing diverse talent. These events also provide opportunities  to connect HP leaders with employees from diverse backgrounds,  fostering an inclusive work environment. HP employees making an impact:   Chantal Martineau-Kirse Chantal Martineau-Kirse founded and coordinates the HP Womens  Network in Munich, Germany. The group promotes the professional  development, visibility, and retention of women at HP Germany.  Learn more about Chantal Martineau-Kirse on page 141.   126 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Employee Resource Groups  Our Employee Resource Groups bring together employees with  common interests and backgrounds. HP has more than 120 such  groups worldwide, representing aspects of diversity such as gender,  ethnicity or national origin, sexual orientation, age, and disability.  For additional information, see Diversity and inclusion on page 125. Performance We track gender diversity globally and ethnic diversity in our U.S.  workforce. The charts below detail our performance over the past   5 years.  In 2011, 23.9% of our top U.S. executives (director level and above)  were women, up from 23.3% in 2010. In the United States, minori- ties constituted 13.4% of our top U.S. executives, down slightly  from 13.7% in 2010. We also promote diversity in our supplier base. See Supplier diver- sity on page 115 for detail. Worldwide workforce demographics, 2007–2011 [women as a percentage of total employees]* Region   2007   2008   2009   2010  2011 Americas—employees  31.0%  30.8%  35.0%  34.3%  33.3% Americas—managers  25.3%  25.2%  28.3%  27.8%  28.7% Asia	Pacific	and	Japan—employees  30.0%  30.9%  32.5%  33.1%  32.3% Asia	Pacific	and	Japan—managers  18.6%  20.2%  21.2%  21.8%  22.3% Europe, Middle East, and Africa—employees  28.4%  28.1%  30.0%  30.5%  29.8% Europe, Middle East, and Africa—managers  17.6%  18.5%  20.0%  19.8%  20.9% Worldwide—employees  30.0%  30.1%  32.9%  32.9%  32.0% Worldwide—managers  21.5%  22.0%  24.3%  24.1%  24.8%   * 2009 data excludes Brazil. Global new hires, 2007–2011 [as a percentage of total]*, ** Region   2007   2008   2009   2010  2011 Female  31.8%  34.9%  35.6%  35.2%  32.7% Male  68.2%  65.1%  64.4%  64.8%  67.3%   *  2009 data excludes Brazil.  ** 2009	data	reflects	the	time	period	January	1	to	November	30,	2009.  127 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society 2011 U.S. workforce demographics [as a percentage of total] Male  Female  White  All  minori- ties   Black  Hispanic   Asian  Native  Hawaiian  or other  Pacific  Islander  Two or  more  races  Native  American  Total Officials and managers  71.67% 28.33% 80.81% 19.19% 3.60% 4.53% 10.47% 0.01% 0.22% 0.36% 11.25% Professionals           68.10% 31.90% 73.14% 26.86% 5.02% 4.96% 15.87% 0.08% 0.46% 0.47% 71.48% Technicians 78.91%  21.09% 69.02% 30.98% 14.57% 7.13% 7.19% 0.29% 1.08% 0.71% 9.82% Sales workers          50.99 49.01% 68.57% 31.43% 7.38% 15.60% 4.72% 0.23% 3.12% 0.38% 1.44% Office and clerical           16.52% 83.48% 62.54% 37.46% 19.80% 8.35% 7.27% 0.31% 1.00% 0.73%  5.25% Operatives (semi-skilled)  43.46% 56.54% 57.59% 42.41% 13.61% 12.57% 14.66% 0.52% 0.52% 0.52% 0.21% Laborers           49.21% 50.79% 41.87% 58.13% 15.87% 24.42% 17.06% 0.00% 0.20% 0.60% 0.55% Total          66.60% 33.40% 72.77% 27.23% 6.69% 5.58% 13.80% 0.11% 0.56% 0.49% 100.00%  128 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society U.S. new hires, 2007–2011 [as a percentage of total]*  2007   2008   2009   2010  2011 White 69.0% 67.2% 65.0%  61.7% 52.4% All minorities 30.1% 32.4% 34.5% 34.8% 31.1% Black  6.8%  8.1%  11.2% 14.5% 7.7% Hispanic  6.3%  6.9%  7.1%  7.1% 6.7% Asian 16.5% 15.7% 12.5%  10.5% 14.6% Native American  0.5%  0.6%  0.7%  0.3% 0.4%  * Sum of White and All minorities does not equal 100% and the sum of Black, Hispanic, Asian, and Native American does not equal the total for All minorities  due	to	people	who	do	not	declare	or	who	do	not	fall	into	these	categories.	White	and	Black	figures	for	2011	are	markedly	lower	from	previous	years,	as	16.1%	of	 respondents	placed	themselves	in	a	new	Other	category,	which	does	not	allow	identification	by	ethnicity.	 Rewards and benefits HP demonstrates our commitment to our people by acknowledging  and rewarding them for their work through our compensation,  benefits,	and	recognition	programs. Compensation After several years of tough business conditions, during 2011 we  brought base pay back to prereduction levels for the vast majority  of	employees	affected	by	pay	cuts	in	2009.	We	also	reintroduced	 the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, enabling employees to buy HP  shares at a 5% discount. Nevertheless, our 2011 Voice of the Workforce survey indicated  that many employees feel HP can do a better job of recognizing and  rewarding their hard work and commitment to the company—and  that the company should be more transparent about bonuses and  raises. We are exploring ways to address these issues in 2012, such  as more clearly articulating the companys compensation strategy. The issue of senior executive compensation is attracting increasing  interest, including from our shareholders. In March 2011, share- holders voted against proposed executive compensation packages  at HPs annual meeting. Although the vote was nonbinding, HP has  carefully considered shareholders perspectives on compensation.  Our	new	president	and	chief	executive	officer,	Meg	Whitman,	who	 took	up	her	position	in	September	2011,	has	a	fixed	annual	salary	 of $1 USD and works under the same open-ended contract as all  employees. Her nonsalary compensation is tied to company perfor- mance and will be paid via shares of HP stock, not cash.  Senior	executive	remuneration	is	based	not	only	on	financial	targets	 but also on factors such as business objectives, customer satisfac- tion, and people development (including issues such as career  development, employee engagement, and succession planning).  129 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Benefits In addition to base and performance-related pay and stock owner- ship,	we	offer	benefits	everywhere	we	operate.	These	are	designed	 to support a wide range of employee needs, varying by country, and  may include:  	Health and wellness plans supporting employee well-being  	Income protection insurance covering risks from injury or illness  	Retirement and savings plans helping employees secure their  financial	future	 	Time-off	programs	to	pursue	interests	outside	of	work	 We	are	continually	adapting	benefit	programs,	and	weve	made	 numerous improvements during the past year designed to better  support	employee	and	business	needs,	while	making	benefits	more	 relevant to our employees. Some examples include:  	Expanded	wellness	and	maternity	care	benefits	in	several	countries	 	Health	benefit	improvements	in	countries	such	as	Colombia	  and India  	New	benefit	options	with	expanded	flexibility	in	several	countries	 throughout the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region 	Expanded	parental	leave	and	backup	childcare	benefits	for	U.S.	 employees  For more details, visit the HP	Benefits website. Recognition programs Appreciating	employees	efforts	and	achievements	at	all	levels	has	 always been important at HP. We acknowledge employee accom- plishments through Recognition @ HP, a program that promotes  appreciation for good work. Focus areas include leadership, innova- tive thinking, and service excellence.  Instant Appreciation e-cards, which enable any employee to  acknowledge the contributions of others, are a powerful recogni- tion tool introduced in 2011. Employees can choose from 11 card  designs that express a variety of sentiments and include space to  describe what the person did to help create a great result for HP.  The sender may also opt to send the recipients manager a copy to  ensure they are aware of the employees contribution.  Wellness I believe that having family and friends  and a work-life balance makes you a  better performer. —Serena Yong, General Manager, Personal Systems Group,   HP Singapore When employees feel well, they perform well. So HP strives to  support	our	people	at	all	levels	of	health	and	fitness.	Our	wellness	 programs vary by country, but all support employees physical  health,	financial	well-being,	and	stress	management.	We	strive	to	 increase employees awareness about health issues and support  healthier lifestyles. Our 2011 Voice of the Workforce (VoW) survey found that 79% of  HP employees felt their managers take a genuine interest in their  wellness, compared with 76% in 2010.  Reflecting	our	strength	in	this	area,	HP	was	named	a	2011	Best	 Employers for Healthy Lifestyles winner by the Washington, D.C.- based National Business Group on Health.  In	2011,	HP	refreshed	30	HP	fitness	centers	in	12	countries.  130 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Maintaining work-life balance  We	offer	programs	to	help	our	employees	manage	personal	and	 work commitments, as the fast pace of our industry can be  demanding. In many countries, these include concierge services,  backup childcare services, and stress-management resources.  Our	annual	VoW	global	survey	showed	that	flexible	work	arrange- ments are one of the features of the HP work environment that  employees value most. These arrangements include: 	Flex time Working a normal 8-hour workday, but adjusting start  and	finish	times 	Part time Working reduced hours on an ongoing or temporary  basis; about 2% of employees work part time 	Telework Working full time from home 	Flexwork Occasionally working from home, but primarily based  on HP premises Additional programs that help employees improve work-life  balance vary by country, including: 	Adoption resources and assistance 	Dependent care resources 	Education resources 	Family and medical leave 	New parent leave 	Vacation	and	paid	time	off For additional details about work-life programs, see HP	Benefits. Wellness Ambassador Network More than 250 Global Wellness Ambassadors promote HP wellness  initiatives locally and help raise employee awareness of our  programs. They plan events and work with local company leadership  to	integrate	health,	financial,	physical,	stress	management,	and	 other well-being strategies into daily employee routines and special  activities.	Wellness	ambassadors	get	together	to	plan	site-specific	 events and also meet virtually as a group to share best practices.  Wellness program  During 2011, we rolled out our wellness program, initially  launched in the United States, to 32 other countries. It now covers  about 90% of employees. Wellness programs outside the United  States are customized to local needs, but they generally feature  activities, challenges, and contests to increase employee involve- ment in this area.  Winning with Wellness Hero  New in 2011, we invited employees to nominate colleagues they  regard as wellness heroes. The Winning with Wellness Hero initia- tive attracted hundreds of nominations, from which six were  selected as particularly inspiring. Among them was Sushil Sharma  in Bangalore, India, who started a Back on Track program that  provides	his	co-workers	with	daily	fitness	and	diet	tips,	encourages	 them to take the stairs instead of the elevator, and urges them to  exercise for at least 30 minutes a day.  Other initiatives Additional wellness initiatives during 2011 included the following: 	We	refreshed	30	HP	fitness	centers	in	12	countries	with	remod- eling and/or new equipment. We also built two new centers at HP  facilities in Plano and Houston, Texas, United States, bringing the  total	number	of	fitness	facilities	to	48	in	13	countries. 	We opened three new on-site health centers in Palo Alto,  California, and Plano and Houston, Texas, United States. HP  opened three on-site clinics in Bangalore, India, in early 2012. 	In the United States, we improved our Backup Child and Adult/ Elder Care Program by expanding care from 5 days to 10 days  per calendar year and by eliminating a copay to allow care at no  cost to the employee. We promoted these program changes as  part of the overall wellness initiative. This helped increase  awareness and program adoption. Usage between 2010 and  2011 rose, on average, from 70 to more than 400 instances per  month. We also expanded our paid Parental Leave Program from   3 to 5 paid leave days. 	As part of a cancer awareness pilot, 46 sites in 7 countries held  mammography and cancer screening sessions. Sixty thousand  employees registered as part of a separate Power of Pink initiative  to help increase awareness of breast cancer.  Global Wellness Challenge In 2011, we launched a Global Wellness Challenge to all employees,  inviting them to take on challenges related to walking and exercising  more. Almost 54,000 employees in approximately 90 countries  participated, with many saying the challenges had changed their  lives for the better. I have lost more than 20 pounds and regained  confidence,	said	one	employee.	I	now	feel	good	about	myself,	and	I	 have also been able to motivate my family to have a healthier life- style.	The	program	has	been	priceless.	It	will	benefit	me	for	the	rest	 of my life and for that I will forever be grateful.  Participants walked or ran more than 4.5 million miles collectively  between May and August. Together, they clocked more than 58  million minutes of exercise—about 110 years. The vast majority of  those	who	took	part	(94%)	were	satisfied	with	the	experience.	For	 more information, watch our video on YouTube.  131 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Employee photos Hong Kong  Dennis A. participating in the King of   the Hills Time Trial race in Hong Kong.  Pam K., left, and HP colleague Veronica F. trained in Frisco, Colorado, United States, negotiating 23  arduous miles in a day. Georgia, United States  Sue B. upping her game at the Tough  Mudder, Georgia, United States, a  12-mile run through woods and on a  motocross track with 20 challenging  obstacles.  Lanzarote, Canary Islands,  Spain  Nacho	P.	at	his	first	Ironman	Triathlon	in	 Lanzarote, Canary Islands. Beishi River, New Taipei  City, Taiwan  Tony L. kayaking down the Beishi  River.  Reading, United Kingdom  Tony S. at the English Standard Distance  Triathlon Championships in preparation  for the Reading, United Kingdom,  Olympic Distance Triathlon.  Florianopolis, Brazil  Marcus Z. in a 150-km relay   marathon called the Volta da   Ilha or around the island.  London–Brighton, United  Kingdom  Steve J. participating in the 54-mile Bike  Ride for the British Heart Foundation  from London to Brighton, United  Kingdom. Chennai, India  HP team exercising.  132 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Health and safety Providing health and safety programs that support HPs employees is  one of our key commitments. We take seriously our responsibility to  provide	a	safe	working	environment	at	our	facilities	and	offices.	This	 reflects	our	values	and	also	makes	good	business	sense.	Employees	 are most productive when they are healthy—and the disruption  caused by lost workdays costs us time and money. Slips, trips, and  falls,	as	well	as	manual	materials	handling	and	office	ergonomic	 incidents, are the leading causes of lost workdays at HP. We tailor  our health and safety programs to try to minimize such incidents. During 2011, we increased our focus on health and safety at  non-HP business locations, as an increasing number of employees  spend time working from home or at customer locations. We rede- signed, updated, and expanded our self-paced health and safety  training	courses	to	better	reflect	those	employees	needs.	We	also	 emphasized	the	different	groups	of	employees	for	which	the	course	 is applicable.  Our health and safety programs are part of a comprehensive envi- ronmental, health, and safety (EHS) management system that  meets or exceeds applicable regulatory requirements globally. This  system aligns with the internationally recognized Occupational  Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) standard OHSAS  18001 as well as the American National Standards Institutes (ANSI)  ANSI Z10 and the International Labour Organizations (ILO) ILO-OSH  2001 standards. Six HP sites in Ireland, Romania, Scotland,  Singapore, South Africa, and the United States are registered to  OHSAS 18001.  Our health and safety data collection and tracking system, which  monitors injury trends at the site and corporate level, adheres to  the	ILO	Code	of	Practice	on	Recording	and	Notification	of	 Occupational Accidents and Diseases. Increasingly, the EHS organization is asked to provide information  in support of our sales, service, and contract teams responding to  customer requests and completing new sales bids, implementing  service agreements, and renewing contracts.  Communications During 2011, we upgraded our EHS intranet site, which, among  other things, provides instructions on safe chemical handling,  advice about health while traveling, and hints on how to audit sites  for health and safety risks. As part of the website update, we  created a video for employees that explains the role of the EHS  organization at HP, providing examples of the wide range of health  and safety issues at the company, and emphasizing the importance  of topics such as hearing protection, safe lifting practices, chemical  containment, and the proper use of forklifts. It also features inter- views with managers about how they address health and safety  issues in their work settings and how EHS supports their  businesses. Training We	emphasize	health	and	safety	from	the	first	day	of	employment	 at HP. We provide employees with an overview of our policies and  advice on preventing and responding to workplace injuries.  Employees take a required online refresher course annually, and we  offer	many	of	our	training	courses	in	multiple	languages. Our HP Safety and Comfort Guide,	which	offers	training	on	ergo- nomics, is available to all employees and can be accessed by  customers and employees on HPs external website, where the  guide is posted in 35 languages. Our online risk-assessment tool  offers	ways	to	assess	office	ergonomic	risks	and	provides	recom- mendations to reduce those risks.  We	also	tailor	training	to	specific	jobs	and	provide	courses	to	reduce	 risks	in	various	work	environments,	including	office,	laboratory,	and	 warehouse settings. Ergonomics training focuses on reducing the  risk of injuries and illnesses related to materials handling and day- to-day	office	work.	 During 2011, we worked to publicize the online training and risk- assessment tool that helps members of our increasingly mobile  workforce	evaluate	their	home	offices,	shared	or	dedicated	work	 spaces, and customer locations. We initially focused on employees  in countries where this type of training, risk assessment, and risk  mitigation is required by law.  Performance Our primary performance metrics for work-related injuries are the  following: 	Lost workday case rate, which describes the number of work- related injuries that result in time away from work per 100  employees working a full year. 	Recordable incidence rate, which describes the number of inci- dents	requiring	medical	attention	beyond	first	aid,	whether	or	not	 they	incurlost	time,	per	100	employees	working	a	full	year.  133 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Lost workday case rate, 2007–2011* The lost workday case rate decreased in 2011 compared with 2010  in	all	regions	except	Asia	Pacific	and	Japan,	where	it	remained	 unchanged. Slips, trips, and falls continues to be the leading cate- gory for lost workday incidents. A health advisory notice on  preventing such incidents is posted on the EHS website, and we  recently communicated health and safety practices that can help  minimize	these	risks	to	all	employees	worldwide.	This	effort	also	 targeted risks associated with materials and equipment handling,  as	well	as	ergonomic	factors	in	the	office	environment.	We	posted	a	 health advisory notice during 2011 on safe practices for manually  handling materials or equipment, with a link to a back safety course.  Our	regional	office	ergonomic	websites	link	to	tools	that	help	 employees	identify,	minimize,	or	eliminate	office	ergonomic	risks.	 Leading causes of lost workdays, 2011  Slips, trips, and falls 40% Ergonomics—materials handling 20% Ergonomics—office	environment 12% Automobile accidents 11% Struck by/against/cut by 6% Other  11% The proportion of lost workdays caused by slips, trips, and falls was  the same in 2011 as in 2010, but the proportion caused by ergo- nomics—materials handling rose from 12% to 20%. As noted above,  we have taken measures to attempt to address this situation.    Global 0.10 0.07 0.08 0.10 0.09    Americas 0.16 0.13 0.17 0.16 0.13    Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.14 0.08 0.04 0.11 0.11 			Asia	Pacific	and	Japan 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.01  * Lost workday case rate is the number of work-related injuries that result in time away from work per 100 employees working a full year. The U.S. industry average in  2009  was	0.3.	(2010	data	did	not	include	the	North	American	Industry	Classification	System	code	used	in	previous	years.	Thus,	2009	data	was	used	because	it	was	the	most	 recent available.) Americas includes incidents occurring in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Panama, Puerto Rico, and the United States. Europe, Middle East, and Africa includes  incidents	occurring	in	Belgium,	France,	Germany,	Israel,	Italy,	Morocco,	Netherlands,	Poland,	Spain,	and	the	United	Kingdom.	Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	includes	incidents	occur- ring in Japan and Singapore. 0.00 0.05 0.10 0.15 0.20 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007  134 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Location of lost workdays, 2011  HP sites 50%  Customer sites 27%  Business travel 15%  Telecommuting/home	office  5%  Events/team building  3%  Incidents at customer sites and during business travel increased in 2011 compared with 2010 (from 20% and 9%,  respectively), so we have extended a health and safety course that was previously targeted only at customer   engineers to also cover other employees. Recordable incidence rate, 2007–2011*    Global 0.38 0.31 0.30 0.24 0.22    Americas 0.75 0.66 0.57 0.43 0.41    Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.30 0.25 0.29 0.18 0.17 			Asia	Pacific	and	Japan 0.04 0.05 0.03 0.03 0.02  * Recordable	incidence	rate	is	the	number	of	all	work-related	lost-time	and	no-lost-time	cases	requiring	more	than	first	aid	per	100	employees	working	a	full	year.	The	U.S.	indus- try	average	in	2009	was	0.5.	(2010	data	did	not	include	the	North	American	Industry	Classification	System	code	used	in	previous	years.	Thus,	2009	data	was	used	because	it	was	 the most recent available.) Americas includes incidents occurring in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, Panama, Puerto Rico, the United States, and Venezuela. Europe, Middle  East, and Africa includes incidents occurring in Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Morocco, Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Asia  Pacific	and	Japan	includes	incidents	occurring	in	Australia,	India,	Japan,	Singapore,	and	South	Korea. 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Recordable incidence rates continued to decrease gradually in 2011, with reductions in every region compared with 2010.   135 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Leading causes of all recordable incidents (with and  without lost time), 2011 Slips, trips, and falls  32% Ergonomics—office	environment  20%  Ergonomics—materials handling  16%  Struck by/against/cut by  11%  Automobile accidents  10%  Other 11%  In 2011, the leading causes of all recordable incidents remained  similar to 2010, although ergonomics—materials handling   and automobile accidents increased slightly (up from 12% and 7%,  respectively).  Location of recordable incidents, 2011  HP sites 54%  Customer sites 25%  Business travel 14%  Telecommuting/home	office  5%  Events/team building  2%  In 2011 the majority of recordable incidents were at HP sites, with  25%	on	customer	premises.	This	is	the	first	time	we	have	reported	 on the location of recordable incidents.    136 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Employee gallery Tom Barrington 27 years of service For Tom Barrington, working as global energy program manager   in	HPs	Global	Real	Estate	organization	is	a	natural	fit.	He	studied	 environmental engineering in college and has engaged in energy  efficiency	and	sustainability	efforts	in	every	position	hes	held	 during his 27 years with HP. As a volunteer on his local public utili- ties commission, he also helps the community by contributing his  expertise in energy and environmental utilities, such as water and  waste management.  Tom, who is based in Roseville, California, United States, is respon- sible	for	driving	energy	efficiency	and	energy	procurement	strategies,	 reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and conserving water  across HPs facilities worldwide. His team helps set environmental  goals for the company, and then works within Global Real Estate and  other HP organizations to meet those goals. Toms team completes  dozens	of	projects	every	year,	from	retrofitting	lighting	to	installing	 sophisticated building-control systems. These complement other  major activities around the company, such as real estate consolida- tions,	that	improve	HPs	overall	efficiency.	 HP	has	paid	attention	to	energy	efficiency	all	along,	and	over	the	 last 3 or 4 years, the company has really stepped up its invest- ments, Tom says. Were focusing on things that deliver clear and  solid returns. Collectively,	HPs	actions	have	paid	off.	In	2008,	HP	set	a	goal	to	 reduce absolute GHG emissions associated with its facilities by 20%  from 2005 levels. In 2011, HP reached this goal—2 years early. But  that	doesnt	mean	Tom	is	satisfied.	Hes	already	working	with	his	 team and others around the company on the next goal. Tom is particularly enthusiastic about a recent project that prom- ises to deliver great returns. In 2011, HP implemented a software  platform from Hara, a provider of energy and sustainability  management software, to help HP more accurately measure and  monitor energy consumption in its facilities. Because the software  will integrate data from across HPs entire real estate portfolio, Tom  says his team will gain insights theyve never had and can better  identify areas with the greatest potential for savings. Its a major  step forward in our ability to be complete and accurate in our  measurements, says Tom. We can perform a much more informa- tive analysis than weve ever done before. The teams work has the potential to make an even greater impact.  HP Energy and Sustainability Management (ESM) group is also  involved in this global implementation. The ESM group will apply  the	insights	and	best	practices	they	gain	to	benefit	other	customers	 undertaking similar deployments. Overall, Tom sees enormous potential to continue improving the  performance of HP facilities. Im excited about going even deeper  into	our	buildings	to	find	efficiency,	and	looking	for	cost-effective	 ways to generate our own renewable energy, he says.  137 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Frances Edmonds 13 years of service From her vantage point in Toronto, Canada, Frances Edmonds  oversees HP Canadas partnership with World Wildlife Fund  (WWF), one of her many duties as director of environmental  programs for HP Canada. Its a big task. Through a project called WWF Living Planet @ Work  Championed by HP, the two organizations are helping to give small  and medium businesses free tools they need to raise the visibility  of sustainability issues within the workplace, pinpoint the most  effective	ways	to	shrink	their	environmental	footprint,	and	engage	 employees to become advocates for change.  Canada is a land of small and medium businesses. We have more  than a million of them. And typically, they dont have a lot of  resources or expertise in sustainability, Frances says. Yet,  together, smaller organizations can make a major contribution to  the conservation of the planets resources. They just need a helping  hand to make it happen. HP and WWF are striving to enroll 500 companies in Living Planet @  Work and raise $1 million in charitable donations through work- place giving by 2014. The contributions will be used for WWF  research	and	conservation	projects.	Companies	that	sign	up	benefit	 from HP expertise in responsible IT purchasing, sustainability  reporting, and employee engagement. The latter, Frances says, is a  really neat way to drive sustainability into the workplace. Frances is no stranger to employee education and engagement. In  2008, she initiated the HP Eco Advocate program, formerly known  as Green Advocates. The program prepares HP employees to talk  with customers and colleagues about environmental issues, such as  climate change. It also trains them to speak about HPs environ- mental initiatives—such as the HP Planet Partners return and  recycling program—and HP products that can help customers  reduce	their	impact.	This	know-how	has	already	benefited	Living	 Planet @ Work. Two HP Eco Advocates who are enrolled in the  Living Planet @ Work project recently shared their knowledge at a  webcast for businesses. Frances sees a genuine need to increase and facilitate environ- mental education among business leaders and employees. As a  speaker at many events and educational institutions, and as a  mentor to environment and business co-operative students at the  University	of	Waterloo,	educational	efforts	are	close	to	her	heart.	 People dont always understand how to procure greener products  and services or change their lifestyles, Frances says. We have to  play a role in educating as well as doing.  138 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society David Fuqua  28 years of service Data centers are notorious for their consumption of energy. David  Fuqua, sustainability program lead for HP Enterprise Services  Global Data Center Operations in Plano, Texas, United States, leads  a	team	dedicated	to	finding	ways	to	conserve	energy	in	HPs	client- serving	(or	trade)	data	centers.	Their	efforts	often	result	in	 significant	reductions	of	costs,	energy	consumption,	and	green- house gas emissions—outcomes David takes pride in. He joined HP in 2008 after spending nearly 25 years with Electronic  Data Systems (EDS), where part of his role was to measure the  companys global carbon footprint. He applied the expertise he  gained	there	to	improve	efficiency	in	HPs	trade	data	centers.	 Over the past 3 years, David and his team have worked on a variety  of	energy-saving	projects,	from	an	ultrasonic	humidification	system	 that reduces the energy needed to maintain data center humidity  levels to containing rows of server racks to prevent hot and cool air  from mixing, which saves on cooling costs. In 2011, Davids team analyzed how cool air was escaping from  underneath	the	raised	floor	in	several	data	centers.	They	discov- ered	that	in	HPs	older	data	centers,	a	significant	amount	of	cool	air	 was	escaping	through	cutouts	in	the	floor	where	power	and	 network cables passed through. In nine of these data centers, they  sealed	the	gaps	and	rebalanced	the	perforated	floor	tiles	to	better	 distribute	air	flow.	David	expected	the	change	would	allow	each	 facility	to	turn	off	20%	of	its	large	air	conditioning	units	on	the	 computer	room	floor,	but	was	delighted	to	see	they	were	able	to	 turn	off	38%,	on	average.	 It was a huge success. We saved nearly 8 million kilowatt hours a  year, says David. Its really satisfying to see real savings as a  result of our work. All told, David estimates that as a result of his teams work in 2011,  HPs trade data centers in North America will save about 13 million  kilowatt hours (kWh) on an annual basis—equal to about 7,200  tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions. The energy saved is  enough	to	power	a	3,700-square-meter	data	center	and	office	area	 for a year.1  Even when hes not at work, David is looking for ways to save  energy. For example, he recently upgraded the air conditioning  system in his home and insulated his attic. Its just one of the ways  his job inspires his life. I really enjoy my work, says David. I have  a good time in this role. 1 Based	on	the	size	of	HPs	data	center	and	office	space	in	Markham,	Ontario,	Canada,	which	consumed	11.4	million	kWh	in	2009.  139 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Kathryn Hall 28 years of service Kathryn Hall, HP statistician and quality systems engineer, is  grateful for the wonderful math teachers who inspired her growing  up. Now shes using her skills and enthusiasm to pass her passion  for math on to the next generation. Learn more about Kathryn.   Shelley Jeffcoat 2 years of service  As a workforce planning program manager for HPs human  resources	team,	Shelley	Jeffcoat	is	responsible	for	end-to-end	 management of several critical hiring initiatives.  In February 2010, when Shelley started mentoring a struggling  co-worker,	she	realized	other	HP	employees	could	benefit	from	the	 same kind of support. So she launched a peer-mentoring program  designed to help employees in her department develop successful  careers and discover their untapped talents. The program has  grown dramatically and is now available to all employees at the HP  site in Conway, Arkansas, United States. We have a team of about  10 volunteers who work very hard to make this program possible,  Shelley says. Participants in the voluntary peer-mentoring program exchange  advice, problem solve together, and help each other develop the  skills they need to accomplish their goals. For example, they often  use meetings to practice public speaking. As the program grows  and expands, the volunteer coordinators also look for ways to add  other kinds of career-development opportunities. For example,  they host monthly lunch-and-learn events, facilitate a Breakfast  with a Leader series, produce educational podcasts, and organize  special events designed to empower employees to network and  learn from HP business leaders.  Shelley estimates the program has helped more than 500 HP  employees	further	their	career-development	efforts.	Im	 passionate about motivating people and encouraging them to do  their very best. I enjoy helping team members continue to grow at  HP, Shelley says.  140 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Sundeep Khisty 17 years of service Sundeep Khisty considers himself lucky; his job allows him to apply a  personal passion. As the practice principal for HP Carbon Emissions  Management Service working out of Sydney, Australia, Sundeep  provides tools that help HPs enterprise customers better under- stand and accurately measure their companies carbon footprints.  Sundeeps team helps companies set goals and track progress by  giving them tools to manage processes in a more sustainable way  and providing key performance indicators and dashboards. For  example, Sundeeps team recently helped a major energy company  justify	the	cost	of	various	programs	that	had	environmental	benefits,	 such as telecommuting. Another client, a midsize Australian bank,  changed	its	procurement	policy	to	include	more	energy-efficient	 products after Sundeeps team demonstrated the potential savings.  These companies have a lot of good strategies, but they dont  know how to implement them. We bring them the database, meth- odology, and reports to start their journey, says Sundeep. Sundeep, who regularly speaks at sustainability-focused confer- ences and events, is appreciative of what he calls an opportunity  for personal contribution. Being	asked	to	fill	this	position	was	the	equivalent	of	my	calling.	  It was a critical shift in my thinking—even in my belief system,   he says. The impact of climate change will not just be felt for   1 or 2 years, but for the whole century. And its going to impact  future generations. HP Carbon Emissions Management Service is an important service  in	HPs	ongoing	efforts	to	help	customers	reduce	energy	consump- tion and address climate change. Beyond changing the way  enterprises work, Sundeep and his team are also transforming how  companies think about energy use. Eberhard Koehler 14 years of service For Eberhard Koehler, business ethics involves more than simply  following regulations. It means giving everyone a fair shot.  Eberhard is HPs director of Worldwide Volume Operations Business  Risk Management and Compliance and works in Cupertino,  California, United States. He leads a team dedicated to ensuring  that HPs channel partners do business with customers and other  third parties without the use of corrupt practices, such as coercion  or bribery. His work helps HP comply with anti-corruption and  global trade laws, while encouraging true competition. I believe that when you go to work and do your best, your end goal  should be to win the deal because you are the best person, says  Eberhard. You shouldnt miss out on an opportunity because  someone else is doing something unethical. Eberhard and his team design policies and educational programs  that help HP partners understand regulations and avoid noncom- pliant	behaviors.	We	level	the	playing	field,	so	that	everyone	has	 the same chance to win deals, says Eberhard. His team brings together experts from all over the world, from  Malaysia to Mexico, and everywhere in between. This cultural diver- sity helps his team communicate with partners on a global scale,  while maintaining good working relationships. Talking about bribery and anti-corruption is not necessarily a nice  topic, he explains. You need to be very sensitive when addressing  ethical practices. You need to establish trust with your audience,  and only then will you be in a position to talk about ethics.  As HP continues to evolve its ethics and compliance programs,  Eberhard	is	proud	of	the	companys	efforts.	Theres	no	question	at	 HP that this is the right thing to do. Theres a high ethical standard  in this company.  141 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Phillip Kong 11 years of service As HP Enterprise Services green practice consulting manager for  Asia	Pacific	and	Japan,	Phillip	Kong	works	with	some	of	HPs	 largest customers to calculate the carbon emissions created by  their IT infrastructure and then helps them identify ways to  reduce those emissions.  Phillip also shares his skills and expertise with a broader group of  HP employees in his role as the global lead for the HP Sustainability  Network. This volunteer group consists of thousands of HP  employees across 36 chapters worldwide who are committed to  reducing the environmental impact of HP and its employees. Phillip  works to support each chapter as the members develop projects  that are based on their unique concerns. Hes working to improve  the way chapters report on their initiatives, giving them a deeper  understanding of their impact. This strategy helps create stronger  engagement, and better results. We allow each chapter the indi- viduality and autonomy they need to address the issues they are  passionate about, says Phillip. Phillip	understands	firsthand	the	hard	work	volunteers	put	into	 their projects. He established the Melbourne chapter in 2009,   the	first	in	Australia,	and	has	helped	make	it	one	of	the	fastest- growing and most active employee groups at HP, with more than  300 members. We have a fantastic group of committed people  who work really hard to make the network a success, he says. Although Phillip is well known inside HP for his work, hes also  gaining	recognition	outside	of	the	company	for	his	efforts.	Phillip	 was recently 1 of 10 individuals to be selected for a sustainability  leadership development program sponsored by the Corporate Eco  Forum that will take him to the Amazon Rainforest in July 2012.  Sleeping in hammocks with no electricity for 3 days—thats pretty  immersive, says Phillip. We will be literally in the middle of  nowhere, the nowhere being one of the most diverse ecosystems in  the world. The experience will help fuel Phillips understanding of the environ- ment, while also informing his work within HP. Phillip says he is  driven by his core belief of the power of the individual. In the end,  the	only	way	to	effect	change	is	through	the	individual.	Good	policy	 is great, but a great attitude is unbeatable. Chantal Martineau-Kirse 32 years of service Chantal Martineau-Kirse is a project manager for HP Enterprise  Services. She was one of the founding team members of the HP  Womens Network in Munich (one of four in Germany) in 2007, and  currently serves as the coordinator. The network promotes the  professional development, visibility, and retention of women at HP. Through the network, Chantal encourages women to take control of  their careers and to support each other, and she assists them in  numerous ways. She ensures that the networks members are aware  of the many resources available to them through HPs professional  development programs. Chantal promotes networking opportunities,  such as HPs Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), diversity confer- ences, and events like the HP German Womens Summit. She also  facilitates career development events including speakers, lunch-  and-learns, and workshops, in addition to mentoring new hires and  students. And she supports HP women as they strive to achieve  work-life balance, by organizing events, such as yoga classes. I have a very positive outlook on life, and Im good at bringing  people together to collaborate. Even though the work I do is not   a part of my daily job, I love it, says Chantal. Over the years, the HP Womens Network in Munich has grown to  more	than	260	members.	The	success	of	the	group	in	part	reflects	 Chantals dedication to creating a work environment where women  are heard, feel supported, and can thrive.  142 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Paul Mazurkiewicz 14 years of service Dr. Paul Mazurkiewicz is a senior scientist at HPs laboratory in Fort  Collins, Colorado, United States. He helps HP comply with environ- mental laws worldwide and alter product materials and related  policies that reduce the risk of health and environmental impacts. Hes a member of the GreenScreen team—the HP group charged  with categorizing certain materials used in HP products and identi- fying more responsible substances to be used as alternatives. The  team uses a materials screening process based on the GreenScreen  for Safer Chemicals framework developed by the nongovernmental  organization, Clean Production Action. The HP GreenScreen team examines materials based on toxicity,  the amount of energy it takes to create the material, and how easy  the material is to recycle. They then create white lists of preferable  substances that can be used to replace the old materials. For  instance, as HP reduces the use of polyvinyl chlorides (PVCs) and  brominated	flame	retardants	(BFRs)	in	its	products,	the	HP	 GreenScreen team balances the sustainability of the replacement  materials with other key performance attributes. Its not good  enough to take something out; you have to know what youre  putting in and make an informed decision, Paul says.  In	addition	to	helping	HP	find	better	materials	to	use,	Paul	is	the	 primary	technical	author	of	the	HP	Active	Verification	Material	 Testing	Specification,	a	companywide	standard	for	materials	 testing frequencies and methodologies referenced by HP suppliers  worldwide. By providing HP suppliers with methods to accurately  test for restricted materials—such as PVCs and BFRs—HP can be  confident	that	its	products	comply	with	company	requirements	and	 government regulations.  Paul is currently using his testing expertise to create a faster and  more	cost-effective	way	to	check	for	the	presence	of	phthalate	 plasticizers. HP recently restricted the use of certain phthalates in  HP products and is considering additional limitations. Pauls new  testing	method	is	more	efficient	than	current	methods,	enabling	HP	 and suppliers to more easily and frequently test products and  materials. This will keep customer costs down while upholding HP  and other environmental standards. Paul relishes quandaries that  allow	him	to	use	scientific	tools	to	help	HP	reduce	the	impact	its	 products have on the world. Environmental sustainability is an  opportunity for innovation. Its a challenge to meet, he says. Zoe McMahon 14 years of service Zoe McMahon, director of HPs Social and Environmental Sustainability  and Compliance program, leads the HP team focused on product and  supply	chain	social	and	environmental	responsibility.	From	her	office	 in Palo Alto, California, United States, she focuses on a wide range   of issues including ethical sourcing, responsible manufacturing,  workers rights, product environmental compliance, and HPs  product reuse and recycling programs.  Its a big job, and it requires Zoe to consider ways that HP can make a  positive impact on a global scale. So when she was invited in 2010 to  join the executive board of the Global Social Compliance Program  (GSCP), a multi-sector, multi-industry initiative aimed at improving  working conditions in supply chains around the world, she welcomed  the opportunity. As a passionate advocate of human rights, Zoe is  eager to apply the lessons shes learned at HP to her work on the  executive board. The board is tasked with creating and promoting a  standard for supply chains across multiple industries, and developing  principles to ensure that the human rights of workers are respected.  Zoe says its important that HP participates in organizations like the  GSCP. To really have an impact, we need to ensure that brands and  retailers	alike	avoid	duplicating	efforts	or	confusing	suppliers	with	 multiple requirements, Zoe explains. Only then can they focus on  the real goal of improving their suppliers performance. The GSCPs work is ambitious. The board is currently focused on  promoting the equivalence process, which allows companies from  different	sectors	to	accurately	compare	their	social	and	environ- mental compliance systems, tools, and processes against an  agreed-upon best practices standard. The GSCP is also working to  establish regional networks of experts in manufacturing centers, so  that suppliers who arent complying with human rights standards  get the support they need to improve their performance. We want  to empower factories to improve their conditions against the stan- dards we developed, Zoe explains.  While	the	GSCP	undoubtedly	benefits	from	HPs	expertise,	HP	bene- fits	as	well.	For	example,	through	dialogue	with	GSCPs	stakeholder	 advisory board, which includes many of the worlds most respected  experts on supply chain and human rights issues, HP stays on the  leading edge of human rights thinking. Zoe says the work is also  rewarding from a personal perspective. Im proud to be a part of  the GSCP, Zoe says. The mission is a big one, and whenever you  can contribute to a mission that big, its empowering.   143 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Ccile Mesmain 11 years of service Ccile Mesmain, program manager of HPs take-back programs for  the Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) region, is committed to  making it easy for customers to return hardware and used HP large- format supplies and media for recycling and recovery.  Her behind-the-scenes legwork is crucial, as each country in the  EMEA region has its own regulations regarding waste collection,  handling, treatment, recovery, and recycling. Currently based in  Barcelona, Spain, Ccile is an expert at researching and interpreting  the	complex	web	of	regulations,	and	finding	responsible	vendors	 who are able to meet them.  Cciles	efforts	make	the	management	of	used	supplies—a	poten- tially challenging issue for customers—into a simple and intuitive  process. Many customers dont know a lot about the regulations  regarding waste, and have no idea which companies to use, Ccile  explains. Our customers are reassured to know that if they give  their supplies back to HP, well make sure theyre managed in a  compliant and environmentally responsible way.  The programs growing participation rates are an indication that  customers	are	pleased	with	HPs	efforts.	We	receive	a	lot	of	 requests for new or expanded take-back programs, she says. Our  programs have really grown in the past 5 years, and its exciting to  know were meeting our customers needs.  Although Ccile is proud of all of HPs take-back programs, shes  most enthusiastic about those created for HP Indigo supplies. The  HP Indigo take-back program has been extremely successful, with  approximately 80% of HPs customers in the United Kingdom and  France registering for the program—the highest participation rate  among all of HPs EMEA take-back initiatives. For Ccile, the posi- tive response is gratifying. By responsibly managing the waste,  were	able	to	make	a	difference	for	HP	and	our	customers,	and	 make a positive contribution to society in general.  Aziz Mohamed 10 years of service Aziz	Mohamed	is	the	health	initiatives	manager	for	the	Office	of	 Corporate Strategy and Technology. He is responsible for coordi- nating HPs partnerships with organizations, such as the Clinton  Health Access Initiative and Partners HealthCare, and helping HP  deliver innovative health programs to underserved people and  communities. Despite his work in the area of global health, Aziz had never volun- teered before he took a life-changing trip to Kenya. Aziz and 20 HP colleagues traveled to an orphanage for children  abandoned by their families due to disease or illness. The majority  of the 200 children, ages 2 through 18, had been diagnosed with  HIV. The team brought food and essential supplies, but one of their  most important contributions was time. The volunteers spent hours  playing games, singing, dancing, and talking with the kids. After half a day being surrounded by such courageous but sick boys  and	girls,	Aziz	came	home	a	different	person.	I	was	personally	 touched	and	affected,	he	says.	I	saw	tears	in	the	eyes	of	my	HP	 colleagues and friends, but I also saw determination and the will   to make the world a better place. Aziz was so moved by his experiences that when he returned home   to his wife and three children he announced that he was going  back—and taking his family with him. I will spend my time, and my  familys time, to do whatever it takes to make a positive change,  he explains. Hear more about Azizs time as a volunteer in Kenya, in his   own words.  144 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Christophe Mosby 2 years of service HP attorney Christophe Mosby volunteers his time to help get  minority high school students excited about pursuing a legal career.  Learn more about Christophe. Chandrakant Patel 25 years of service Chandrakant Patel, HP senior fellow and interim director of HP  Labs, brings tremendous enthusiasm to his profession. He often  says, I am as excited Friday night as I am on Monday morning. For  more than 20 years, Chandrakant has played a central role in  making	HP	a	leader	in	energy-efficient	computing.	His	research	with	 HP Labs in the early 1990s led to the next generation of micropro- cessors and data centers. Later that decade, Chandrakant began  investigating the concept of smart data centers that dynamically  provision	computing,	power,	and	cooling	for	optimum	efficiency. More recently, he has extended his research beyond data centers to  cities in what he refers to as City 2.0. His vision is to create more  sustainable urban infrastructures by embedding IT to monitor and  manage resources, such as water, power, and waste. Its not just  about making a better handheld device or a better desktop  computer. Its about using those devices to make a better future,  he says. Experience has taught Chandrakant that building a more sustain- able world requires a diversity of expertise. He assembled and  leads a multidisciplinary team of mechanical engineers, computer  scientists, and even an economist—all collaborating to build solu- tions that are holistic and comprehensive. I have built a very  dedicated and passionate team. They are all here because they  want to address societys needs. Chandrakants passion for a more sustainable future doesnt begin  or end at the lab. As he has done for more than 20 years, he starts  and ends his days by taking San Francisco Bay Area public transpor- tation to and from work, often engaged in animated conversations  with colleagues, and he carries a sketchbook to capture ideas  whenever	they	come	to	him.	Hes	also	a	prolific	writer—having	 published numerous articles and more than 150 papers, many on  the importance of implementing sustainable IT. Chandrakant sees boundless potential to create business and social  value through sustainability. I wish I were 20 years younger,  because there are so many advancements that lie ahead, he says.  We are not limited by technology. The challenges—and the oppor- tunities—are in how we apply IT for sustainability.  145 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Scott Taylor  25 years of service As	HPs	chief	privacy	officer,	Scott	Taylor	and	his	team	work	with	 our business groups, regions, and corporate functions to integrate  privacy and data protection into our processes, products, and  services. Scott has been with HP for 25 years, gaining experience with the  company while still in college and joining full time after graduation.  Having majored in biochemistry and public relations, he forged an  early career as a marketer who could speak the language of science.  After	establishing	HPs	first	direct	marketing	efforts,	from	1994	to	 2006, he led the team that launched our Internet presence. This role made Scott acutely aware of how much personal data was  collected	online,	so	his	transition	to	chief	privacy	officer	in	2006	felt	 natural. Hes continually motivated by the potential his work has to  make	a	difference	for	the	typical	person.	Its	great	to	lead	a	 program that impacts peoples lives every day, says Scott. One of  our industrys greatest challenges is to ensure personal data  remains secure while providing more and better services. This  requires putting privacy and data protection at the heart of all we  do, so customers understand and have real choices about how their  data is used. To accomplish this, Scott and his team have created a holistic privacy  accountability model that ensures the people handling data are  accountable and their practices transparent. One tangible example is  the deployment of HPs Privacy Advisor tool, which employees use  daily to put the companys privacy policies into practice. This	approach	is	influencing	regulatory	models	around	the	world,	and	 Scott believes other companies should develop similar mechanisms  for privacy protection, working closely with nongovernmental   partners and regulators. Hes optimistic that this will happen, as  consumers demand higher standards and some companies high- profile	missteps	focus	media	attention	on	privacy.	Importantly,	Scott	 sees that leadership in this area provides competitive advantage:  Customers increasingly care about what happens to their data, and  seek	companies	they	can	trust	to	protect	them	from	financial	and	 personal harm.  146 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Barath Venkatesh  4 years of service Barath Venkatesh is based in Chennai, India, and leads a campaign  analytics team within HPs Global Analytics division. Shortly after  starting at HP in 2007, he took a year away to work as an education  fellow	for	a	social	enterprise	that	expands	access	to	financial	 services for educators. When he returned to HP, Barath knew the  skills he garnered and contacts he made could be valuable to the  newly formed HP Catalyst Initiative, a program aimed at helping  young individuals develop skills in science, technology, engineering,  and math (STEM). So he reached out to HPs Sustainability and  Social	Innovation	(SSI)	team	and	offered	his	help. The SSI team was looking for partners for the Catalyst Initiative in  India, and Barath used his experience to help them identify several  organizations, including the Agastya International Foundation.  Agastya is a hands-on science education program focused on  bringing mobile labs to poor, rural parts of India—helping children  learn	about	science	by	experiencing	it	firsthand.	 Agastya applied to become a leader for the HP Catalyst Initiatives  New Learner consortium. Together with researchers and experts  from six other leading educational institutions around the world,  Agastya is exploring how to create new, engaging models of  student-driven STEM learning that lead to higher school completion  rates and promote learning how to learn. Barath continues to look for places within HP to use his skills and  knowledge to improve education. He supports HPs SSI team on  special projects, particularly those that impact India. In 2011,  Barath served on the advisory panel for the HP Catalyst Summit,  held in India. The event brought members of the HP Catalyst  Initiative face to face to discuss global issues and identify new  opportunities in STEM education. He pursues other opportunities  that combine his passion for education and social enterprise as  well. For example, he was chosen as a fellow at the 2011 Global  Economic Symposium in Kiel, Germany, where he was invited to  discuss	financing	for	rural	private	schools	in	India.		 Barath is excited about how HP can contribute to education, as well  as his opportunity to be a part of making progress. I think tech- nology has a huge role to play in education, and thats where HP  can step in, says Barath. Given the limited resources and chal- lenge of scale in developing countries, social investments—when  directed carefully—have the potential to impact more people than  traditional philanthropy. Ernest Wong 3 years of service Ernest Wong, a Hong Kong–based program manager for the HP  Supply Chain Social and Environmental Responsibility (SER)  program	in	the	Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	region,	is	instrumental	in	 ensuring that HPs suppliers respect the rights of workers, provide  safe working environments, and improve their everyday social and  environmental practices. As part of his work, Ernest coordinates with nongovernmental  organizations (NGOs) to help train suppliers and create strong  internal processes that lead to substantial and lasting improve- ments in SER performance. Ernest says this capability building can  take many forms, including increasing suppliers awareness of HPs  Electronic Industry Code of Conduct, holding trainings on antidis- crimination and labor rights, and creating more holistic  management systems to help suppliers better meet their SER  responsibilities.  Ernest says that good communication is the key to capability  building. All parties—including NGOs, supplier managers, and  workers	or	worker	representatives—need	to	have	confidence	in	the	 program to make it productive. We have to determine everyones  common interests and learn how to trust one another, he explains.  Ernest says the work is always rewarding, but is especially grati- fying when positive feedback comes from the suppliers themselves.  A factory manager told us the training helped clear up some  misunderstandings between workers and management, so that  workers had a much better understanding of their rights and obli- gations, he says. A very credible NGO did the training, and it  helped build trust within the factory.  The programs also demonstrate that a little bit of goodwill can go a  long way. Not only are we expanding many of the programs, but  our key suppliers are beginning to share their best practices with  their peers in areas like labor relations and energy savings, he  says. Its a very positive development when our programs grow  without our help.  147 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Social  innovation We believe that when companies use their core strengths  as well as the skills and passions of their employees to  address pressing social and environmental challenges,  they can make a profound, positive impact on the world. —Gabi Zedlmayer, Vice President, Sustainability and Social Innovation, HP At HP, our approach to social innovation is based on the concept of creating shared value.  This	approach	uses	guiding	principles	and	practices	that	deliver	an	economic	benefit	for	 companies, while simultaneously improving social and environmental conditions. We strive to use the same passion, energy, and culture of innovation that make HP commer- cially successful to make a profound and positive impact in the world. Our commitment to  social innovation is integrated into our overall business strategy, helping us to create long- term	value	that	benefits	customers,	shareholders,	and	employees. We help address critical social needs through a powerful union of innovation and collabora- tion. Our strategy involves treating our social innovation projects like business  engagements. We work with our partners to understand a targeted need, and identify the  capabilities	and	expertise	we	have	to	offer,	harnessing	all	of	HPs	assets—human,	techno- logical,	intellectual,	and	financial—to	develop	a	sustainable	solution.1 We apply our knowledge and expertise to help tackle challenges in education, entrepre- neurship, and health, and to support community engagement and employee giving. In  2012, we are integrating social innovation and environmental sustainability, focusing our  combined	efforts	to	make	a	positive	impact	in	the	world. Learn more about the creating shared value approach to social innovation. Highlights in 2011 1.2 million  Approximate number of people HP Learning Initiative  for Entrepreneurs (HP LIFE) provided training and tech- nology to since 2007 more than  744,000 Number of hours HP employees and retirees volun- teered in communities worldwide, valued at nearly   $26 million USD* 65,000 Approximate number of infants tested for HIV through  HPs Early Infant Diagnosis program $10 million USD Amount HP has invested in the HP Catalyst Initiative  since 2010 * Value based on type of volunteering: $150 USD per hour for  board, service corp, pro bono, and skill-based; $20 USD per  hour	for	hands-on.	Uncategorized	hours	are	not	reflected	in	 this total. 1 Some of the data reported on social innovation programs in 2011 is based on information provided to HP from partner organizations.   148 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Collaborations and partnerships Taking a holistic approach is essential to delivering successful,  scalable	solutions	that	benefit	communities	over	the	long	term.	 To address complex, multifaceted social challenges, we collabo- rate with a range of organizations including leading businesses,  governments, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), thought  leaders, social entrepreneurs, and academics. The following are a few examples of collaborations from 2011: 	Partnering with customers The United Nations is a long-term  customer of HP and together we partnered to support the UN  Refugee Agency UNHCR	in	its	efforts	to	help	Kakuma refugees  gain greater access to education and improve their livelihoods  through technology. 	Partnering with government agencies HP and the U.S. Agency for  International Development (USAID) are committed to exploring  collaboration as a way to promote education, global health, and  responsible mineral trading systems, and to supporting economic  opportunity through entrepreneurship. 	Partnering with NGOs HP is working with NGO mothers2mothers  to transform the organizations information technology infra- structure	and	develop	new,	more	efficient	processes	for	 information access and management. View a map that summarizes the geographical reach of our activities. Tackling social challenges in collaboration  with HP Labs From information analytics and cloud security to environmental  sustainability, HP Labs works on the cutting edge of innovation.  Recent work from HP Labs helped meet critical social needs as well. 	HP Labs and Lucile Packard Childrens Hospital at Stanford devel- oped a Patient-Centered Dashboard that can help prevent human  error in medical settings. Watch a video for more information  about this lifesaving innovation. 	The HP Software divisions Professional Services group and the  Social Innovation team collaborated with HP Labs to create a  cloud-based, global authentication service	to	fight	the	problem	of	 counterfeit drugs in developing countries. John Elkington Executive Chairman, Volans John sees HP drawing on its rich  history, values, skills, and tech- nologies to create new business  models that help address global  challenges. Visit our online  gallery of external stakeholder   perspectives	to	see	Johns	video. Education Education drives personal achievement, seeds groundbreaking  ideas, and fuels economic prosperity for individuals, communities,  and entire countries. HP focuses on strengthening science, tech- nology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education because  we recognize how paramount it is to helping solve some of the  worlds most critical challenges. By applying technology in creative  ways to extend and enrich teaching and learning, we are helping the  next generation of leaders, innovators, and workers develop the  knowledge and skills they need to succeed in the global economy. HP Catalyst Initiative In 2010, HP launched the Catalyst Initiative to build a global  network of educators who explore new approaches to STEM  education. The network uses an interdisciplinary approach and  emphasizes creativity, collaboration, and cross-cultural expertise.  Our goal is to transform STEM teaching and learning—from  secondary education through the university level—and inspire  HP Catalyst Education Initiative highlights 6 Number of consortia in the   Catalyst network $10 Amount HP invested in the   Catalyst network since 2010 15 Number of countries the   network reaches 56 Number of organizations receiving  funding from the HP Catalyst Initiative million   USD  149 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society students to use their technical ingenuity and creativity to address  urgent social challenges. By the end of 2012, member organiza- tions estimate that more than 250,000 students around the world  will	benefit	from	the	Catalyst	Initiative	by	experiencing	innovative	 ways of learning and teaching. The HP Catalyst Initiative selects network members through a  competitive call for proposals open to educational institutions,  including	schools,	universities,	and	nonprofit	and	nongovernmental	 organizations. Network members explore new ways to transform  STEM education and are placed into six consortia based on their  areas of research. In 2011, HP added 21 new organizations to the Catalyst network, for  a total of 56 organizations in 15 countries.1 HP also funded 20 new  projects and established a new consortium. The new consortium,  STEM-preneur, led by the Tsinghua University School of Economics  and Management in China, looks for ways to combine STEM educa- tion with the skills and passion of entrepreneurship. Each  consortium receives HP technology, cash, and professional support.  In 2011, HP contributed $4 million USD to the network, bringing the  total amount invested by HP to $10 million USD since 2010. Watch a video to learn more about the HP Catalyst Initiative. You  can	also	find	more	information	on	our	website, including a complete  list of the network members. The Catalyst Initiative is one of the most  important, collaborative, technologically  savvy, and innovative approaches to  enhancing STEM education that is in oper- ation today. —John Bourne, Executive Director, Emeritus, of the Sloan Consortium  (Leader of the HP Catalyst Initiative Multi-Versity Consortium) Accomplishments in 2011 HP	provides	financial	support	and	technology	to	HP-Catalyst	 consortia. The following are a few examples of what Catalyst  members accomplished in 2011 with HPs help (name of consortium   is in bold). 	Multi-Versity To increase student engagement, the engineering  faculty at National University (San Diego, California, United States)  replaced traditional lectures with projects requiring students to  create challenging, interactive games that demonstrate engi- neering and physics principles. Another project from this  consortium comes from Northwestern University (Evanston,  Illinois, United States). The school is expanding a network of  online laboratories that provides students in rural and urban high  schools with access to science equipment, hundreds or even thou- sands of miles away. So far, participating schools have reported a  15% overall increase between pre- and post-program science test  scores among schools using the online labs. The pilot program  includes nine schools, reaching students in a wide variety of low- income, urban, and rural school districts. Learn more. 	Global Collaboratory The Masinde Muliro University in Kenya is  improving chemistry education by delivering mobile technology to  rural areas within the country. Chemistry simulations are loaded  onto mobile workstations and brought to schools that have infre- quent electricity and no access to the Internet. Watch a video to  learn more. 	Pedagogy 3.0 Kingston Primary School in Western Australia is  supporting teachers in remote schools by promoting collaborative  models that use technology to connect teachers. This helps  provide science teachers the support they need to be successful. 	STEM-preneur The Learning Links Foundation empowers youths  in	India	to	identify	local	developmental	issues	and	form	a	scientific	 and innovative approach to address local problems. The goal of  this initiative is to enhance living conditions and improve busi- nesses and trade in rural India. Education in India In 2011, more than 100 educational leaders from 15 countries  participated	in	the	first	HP	Catalyst	Summit	in	New	Delhi,	India.	The	 event, sponsored by HP and organized by the International Society  for Technology in Education, addressed global challenges related to  STEM education. During the summit, HP committed to investing $1  million USD to the Education Innovation Fund for India (EIFI), which  provides grants to individuals or organizations with scalable proj- ects	capable	of	significantly	changing	the	way	education	is	 approached in India. HP employees making an impact:   Barath Venkatesh Barath Venkatesh uses his experience to help HP make lasting  improvements in education—especially in his home country of  India. Learn more about Barath Venkatesh on page 146. 1 There	are	56	organizations	receiving	funding	from	the	HP	Catalyst	Initiative.	Many	more	organizations	participate	in	the	effort	without	receiving	funding.  150 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Entrepreneurship All over the world, entrepreneurs drive innovation, create jobs, and  fuel economic opportunity. HP works with organizations to help  recent graduates, young people, and aspiring and established  entrepreneurs acquire the information technology (IT) skills and  knowledge they need to launch successful businesses and help  their local communities prosper. HP LIFE HP Learning Initiative for Entrepreneurs (HP LIFE) is a global training  program that helps students, aspiring and established entrepre- neurs, and small business owners develop the IT and business skills  necessary to build successful companies and create jobs. Since  2007, HP LIFE programs have reached approximately 1.2 million  people with training, access to technology, and online activities. In  2011, HP added 40 new training centers to the program, increasing  the total number of training centers HP works with to nearly 340  across 49 countries. In some cases, trainees have started their own  businesses, often creating jobs for others in the process. In other  situations, the program has helped trainees gain the necessary  skills	to	find	employment.	Overall,	HP	LIFE	has	helped	to	establish	 and expand more than 19,700 businesses since 2007, and helped  approximately	42,900	people	find	work. The following are a few examples of people who succeeded with  help from HP LIFE in 2011: 	Washington Mvelase, a young entrepreneur and Internet caf  owner in South Africa, struggled to manage his new business.  After taking training classes with HP LIFE, he developed the  professional skills necessary to expand his business and manage  his	finances	more	efficiently.	Watch a video to learn more. 	Neha Gupta took classes with HP LIFE to help her develop the  business and IT skills she needed to start a jewelry business in  India. Watch a video to learn more. 	Bano Fatimas organization provides a small community of  weavers in India with the tools they need to sell their products.  Her two biggest challenges in starting her small enterprise were IT  and communication skills. HP LIFE taught her how to manage her  expenses and give presentations that are more engaging. Watch a  video to learn more. Learn more about other success stories from HP LIFE. Our partnership with HP allows us to  provide students around the world with  what	may	be	their	first	experience	with	 social innovation principles. Our program  shows tomorrows entrepreneurs the  importance of integrating social innova- tion values into the businesses that they  will lead one day. —Caroline	Jenner,	Chief	Executive	Officer,	Junior	Achievement	Young	 Enterprise (JA-YE) Europe Social Innovation Relay Getting young people excited about entrepreneurship is an invest- ment in future job creation. That is why HP, in partnership with  Junior Achievement (JA), created the Social Innovation Relay. This  worldwide, interactive, Web-based competition allows young  students, ages 15 through 18, the opportunity to think like social  innovators and develop ideas to help solve some of the worlds  most pressing challenges. Groups of students from 11 participating  countries work with HP employees as mentors through a global,  online system. In 2011, nearly 10,000 students and 185 HP volunteers participated  in the learning program. The winning team, Fortuna, from  Nizhnekamsk, Russia, developed an innovative approach to waste  management. Their idea to transform items that had been thrown  away into new products of practical and aesthetic value has taken  off.	They	now	have	a	marketing	strategy	that	has	helped	drive	 demand for their goods in a niche market. Watch a video about the  winning idea. Junior Achievement (JA) HP has worked with JA since 1996 to develop new ways of building  entrepreneurship and business skills among young people. Many  HP employees volunteer in JA tutorial and training programs.  151 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Health Good health is fundamental to a good quality of life. But today,  access to even basic health services is beyond the reach of billions  of people. Public and private health systems are struggling to  deliver	effective	care	in	developed	as	well	as	in	emerging	markets. HP believes technology can transform global health and help  increase	access	to	affordable,	quality	healthcare	worldwide.	We	 apply our broad portfolio of products and solutions, our technical  and business expertise, our partnerships, and the time and experi- ence of our employees to tackle pressing health needs and drive  structural, systemic improvements throughout health systems  globally. The UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) help us  prioritize	our	efforts	to	focus	on	some	of	the	greatest	health	chal- lenges facing the world today, including reducing child mortality,  improving maternal health, and combating HIV/AIDS, malaria, and  other diseases. A collaborative approach to problem solving and a diverse set of  skills and experience help drive innovations in health. HP works  with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), governments, and  health organizations to help deliver lifesaving solutions. We focus  on two primary areas: strengthening health systems and acceler- ating electronic and mobile health solutions. Strengthening health systems We work closely with governments and strategic partners to struc- turally improve health systems around the world. Learn more. Accelerating early infant diagnosis of HIV HP and the Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI) are working with  the Kenyan government to reduce the amount of time it takes to  diagnose an HIV-positive infant. The Early Infant Diagnosis (EID)  project	automates	the	HIV	testing	process,	significantly	speeding	 up the reporting of test results and helping to save lives. As	of	2011,	five	state-of-the-art	HP	data	centers	connect	with	four	 existing laboratories, providing a platform to speed the transmis- sion of data. Samples are now assigned a barcode, tested, and then  recorded in a database. Instead of postal mail, results are sent by  text message to SMS-enabled HP printers in rural clinics. If clinics  have Internet access, they can also receive the results by email or  access the data online. A process that used to take several months  now reliably takes less than 30 days, allowing HIV-positive patients  to receive antiretroviral treatment early. Commencing treatment at  an early stage is critical in controlling the virus and is directly  related to survival rates. The technology infrastructure supporting this program is rolling out  in Uganda and is expected to transform and improve other health  programs as well. In 2011, approximately 65,000 infants were tested  in Kenya through EID, and HP expects that more than 70,000 tests  will be completed in 2012. Read more or watch a video about EID. Working to prevent errors in medical settings HP and Lucile Packard Childrens Hospital (LPCH) in Palo Alto,  California, United States, have been collaborating on patient safety  research for more than 2 years. In 2011, HP and LPCH released an  electronic Patient-Centered Dashboard that helps prevent human  error in medical settings. During the evaluation phase, the dash- board	alerted	staff	with	recommended	changes	in	care	for	one	out	 of three young patients. The reminders range from replacing or  removing equipment that might otherwise cause infection to  altering the type or quantity of medication, or adjusting beds to  prevent children on ventilators from developing pneumonia. Read  more or watch a video about the Patient-Centered Dashboard. Reaching remote areas The Lake Tanganyika Floating Health Clinic (LTFHC) is an interna- tional	nongovernmental	organization	that	offers	medical	care	to	 hundreds of thousands of people living in the isolated Lake  Tanganyika Basin/Great Lakes region of Central Africa. As LTFHC  moves toward its ultimate goal of operating a ship-based regional  hospital on the lake, HP is providing funding and in-kind donations to  support the organizations outreach programs to local communities.  Were also collaborating with LTFHC and others to help develop infra- structure that is expected to improve access to quality healthcare. In 2011, HPs support helped LTFHC conduct a womens reproduc- tive	health	outreach	effort	to	provide	fistula	patients	with	surgery,	 counseling,	and	education.	This	outreach	is	believed	to	be	the	first	 of its kind in the Lake Tanganyika basin. The funding we provided in  2011 continued to help LTFHC in early 2012 as it upgraded the  Moba Territory Ministry of Health communications network, giving  remote health clinics the ability to communicate with each other  and the Moba Regional Hospital. Learn more.  Accelerating electronic and mobile  health solutions We apply our expertise in mobile and cloud-based solutions to   help improve and transform the way healthcare is accessed and  delivered. Learn more. Helping prevent the transmission of HIV South Africa–based NGO mothers2mothers (m2m) provides coun- seling and educational services to new mothers and HIV-positive  pregnant women—helping to prevent the spread of HIV to the next  generation. Since its founding in 2001, m2m has counseled more  than 1 million women in seven countries across sub-Saharan Africa.  152 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society HP is working with m2m to transform its information technology  (IT)	infrastructure	and	develop	new,	more	efficient	processes	for	 information access and management across its nearly 600 sites.   In 2011, HP helped m2m update its record-keeping system from  paper to digital. Read more or watch a video about m2m. Fighting counterfeit drugs An estimated 700,000 people, or more, die every year from   counterfeit drugs.1 HP is collaborating with governments, phar- maceutical companies, telecommunications companies, and  leading NGOs and social entrepreneurs to combat this problem.  The Global Authentication Service allows consumers to use a code  printed on their medication package to easily check the authen- ticity of their medications via mobile phone. Within seconds, they  receive a reply letting them know whether the medication is  authentic. The service started in Ghana and Nigeria in 2010, and  launched in India in 2011. HP expects this service will roll out to   at least three more countries in 2012. Learn more. Reducing the spread of malaria HP, CHAI, and Positive Innovation for the Next Generation, an NGO  based in Botswana, developed an application and service available  via	mobile	phone	that	gives	Health	Ministry	officials	in	Botswana	 the vital information they need to help track, respond to, and  prevent malaria epidemics. The mobile solution, which also  launched	in	Kenya,	speeds	up	the	flow	of	information,	enabling	 faster,	more	effective	decisions	during	outbreaks.	HP	plans	to	  help roll out this system in multiple countries in 2012 for use in  monitoring other deadly diseases. Learn more. Jackson Hungu CHAI Deputy Country Director,  Kenya Jackson describes HPs approach  to social innovation as a breath  of fresh air, thanks to the  companys technology and its  people. Visit our online gallery  of external stakeholder perspec- tives to see Jacksons video. Employee volunteerism  and giving At HP, we value supporting the communities in which we live and  work. Thousands of HP employees around the world volunteered  their time or donated money to support local communities and  assist	in	disaster	relief	efforts	during	2011.	The	following	numbers	 reflect	those	employees	who	reported	their	volunteer	efforts	to	HP	 or donated money through HP company channels. 	HP employees and retirees donated more than 744,000 hours to  volunteer projects. That time spent giving back to communities is  valued at nearly $26 million USD.2 	HP employees donated $5.6 million USD to nongovernmental  organizations	(NGOs),	schools,	and	disaster	relief	efforts.3 Employee volunteering HP encourages employees and retirees to apply their abilities and  expertise	to	volunteer	efforts.	We	support	their	efforts	to	volunteer	 during both company and personal time. With manager approval,  every HP employee can use 4 hours of company time per month to  volunteer. 1 Keeping It Real: Protecting the worlds poor from fake drugs, International Policy Network, May 2009. (Approximately 700,000 deaths from malaria and tuberculosis alone are attributable to fake drugs.) 2 Value	based	on	type	of	volunteering:	$150	USD	per	hour	for	board,	service	corp,	pro	bono,	and	skill-based;	$20	USD	per	hour	for	hands-on.	Uncategorized	hours	are	not	reflected	in	this	total. 3 Value	based	on	fiscal	year	donations	made	to	NGOs	and	schools,	and	calendar	year	donations	made	to	disaster	relief	efforts.  153 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Pro bono work We	are	committed	to	strengthening	the	nonprofit	sector	by	contrib- uting time, as well as professional expertise (pro bono work). Below  are snapshots of some of the pro bono projects our employees are  doing all over the world in the areas of marketing, information  technology,	legal,	finance,	human	resources,	and	engineering. 	HP legal Members of HPs legal team in Germany visit schools to  teach students how to protect themselves online. They share their  expertise on issues such as illegal downloads, copyright infringe- ment, fraud, privacy, freedom of speech, and cyberbullying. Since  the	program	launched	in	2010,	HP	attorneys	and	other	legal	staff	 have led more than 40 training sessions and reached more than  300 students in grades 5 through 12. 	HP human resources HP human resources departments provide  job-skills training in several locations around the world. During  2011, HP volunteers discussed resum writing, interview skills,  and career paths with participants in Canada, Mexico, Singapore,  the United Kingdom, and the United States. Random Hacks of Kindness Random Hacks of Kindness (RHoK) is an online community of  programmers who create apps, platforms, interfaces, and systems  that have a positive social impact. They give their apps away to  people or organizations facing social or environmental challenges. In 2011, HP became an RHoK global partner. Together we hosted  several hackathon events in more than 30 cities worldwide to  create apps that help address a variety of social needs. Examples  (still in the development stage) include: 	An app that helps people with autism learn to cope with various  challenges, including safety measures, expressing feelings,  managing time, and bullying. Watch a video for more information. 	An app that provides people in the United States with the   nearest location of farmers markets accepting Supplemental  Nutrition	Assistance	Program	benefits	(formerly	known	as	the	 food stamp program). 	The Helping Hands app connects organizations that have excess  amounts of food, such as restaurants and hotels, with NGOs that  provide food to those in need. Learn more about the work HP employees are doing with RHoK. Helping refugees HP partnered with its long-term customer, the United Nations, to  support the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) in its efforts to help  refugee camps around the world, particularly the Kakuma refugees  in Kenya. For the last 15 years, Kakuma refugees, displaced due to  drought	and	conflict,	have	lived	with	limited	access	to	water,	near- impossible farming conditions, and a lack of transportation. During  2011, HP employees volunteered to help identify potential employ- ment and entrepreneurship opportunities for refugees. We also  provided technology to help increase access to educational materials  and training opportunities in more than 30 UNHCR camps, giving  refugees many of the skills needed to create a better future. HP employees making an impact:  Kathryn Hall Kathryn Hall, HP statistician and quality systems engineer, is  grateful for the wonderful math teachers who inspired her growing  up. Now shes using her skills and enthusiasm to pass her passion  for math on to the next generation. Learn more about Kathryn Hall  on page 139. HP employees making an impact:   Christophe Mosby HP attorney Christophe Mosby volunteers his time to help get  minority high school students excited about pursuing a legal career.  Learn more about Christophe Mosby on page 144. HP employees making an impact:   Aziz Mohamed Aziz Mohamed traveled to Kenya and visited an orphanage. The  children there had been abandoned by their families due to  disease or illness, and the majority of them are HIV positive. The  experience inspired Aziz to return and do whatever it takes to make  a positive change. Learn more about Aziz Mohamed on page 143. Partnering with customers More than 100 HP and UPS employees volunteered together to  clean, paint, and landscape schools in California and Georgia,  United States. HP and Clorox volunteers also teamed up to clean and install new,  donated HP IT equipment at the East Oakland Youth Development  Center (Oakland, California, United States), helping the center  continue its 33-year tradition of providing education, physical  development, computer literacy, and more to at-risk children. Employee giving The Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation provides employees   in the United States with one-to-one cash matching for gifts to  qualified nonprofit organizations, at up to $1,000 USD per  employee,	per	fiscal	year.	In	2011,	HP	employees	in	the	United	 States donated cash totaling approximately $3.8 million USD,  matched by $3.1 million USD from the Hewlett-Packard Company  Foundation.1 Since 2007, HP and employees have donated   $30 million USD through the program. In addition, U.S. employees  can	donate	HP	technology	to	qualified	charitable	organizations	or	 schools. Employees contribute 25% of the product list price, up to  $5,000 USD, and HP contributes the remaining amount. In 2011,  HP and its employees in the United States donated products worth  approximately $5 million USD. Since 2007, HP and employees  have donated products valued at approximately $30 million USD.  154 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Disaster relief In 2011, HP employees, HP, and the Hewlett-Packard Company  Foundation donated money, equipment, and expertise in response  to natural disasters, including the earthquake and subsequent  tsunami in Japan. At right are the approximate values of cash and product contribu- tions from HP employees, HP, and the Hewlett-Packard Company  Foundation in response to 2011 disasters:2 2011 donations for disaster relief [$ USD] Japan (earthquake/tsunami)  $2,302,000 Thailand	(flooding) $368,000 East Africa (drought) $300,000 United States (storms/tornadoes) $210,000 Australia	(flooding)	 $100,000 Brazil	(flooding)	 $100,000 New Zealand (earthquake)  $100,000 Sri	Lanka	(flooding)	 $100,000 Turkey (earthquake) $50,000 Performance HP addresses critical social needs through a powerful union of  innovation and collaboration, measuring our progress by the posi- tive impact of our programs. In past years, we tracked the total  amount invested by HP in our programs. In 2011, we began using  metrics to measure new areas. The following are the current areas  we measure: 	Social impact We measure how many people and places we  impacted through our programs. 	Business impact We measure how our programs impact our  competitive advantage and reputation. 	Operational excellence We track how many employees support  our programs, on-time delivery of cash and product donations,  and completion of milestones. 	Financial impact We track total investment by HP and funding by  partners in support of our programs. The information we gather through this measuring process helps us  strengthen our programs. Although	many	benefits	of	our	social	innovation	programs	cannot	 be measured purely in terms of dollars spent or products and  services donated, we understand the importance of tracking and  reporting	our	financial	investments.	The	total	value	of	our	social	 investments, including contributions from HPs business units for  social projects, was approximately $51.5 million USD in 2011. 1  The Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation will match up to $4 million USD in aggregate annually.     2 Figures are for the 2011 calendar year.  155 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Social investments, 2007–2011* [$ million USD]  2007   2008   2009   2010  2011 Overall Total $49.8 $52.5** $56.1 $44.9** $51.5 Percentage	of	pretax	profits 0.54% 0.50% 0.60% 0.41%  0.57% Type Cash $23.3 $24.9 $21.1 $27.3  $20.3 Products and services*** $26.5 $27.5 $35.0 $17.7  $31.2   * Data excludes contributions to the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation and employee donations, but includes HPs matching contributions and contributions from the  Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation to other organizations. Prior to 2010, HP did not report contributions from the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation to other  organizations	as	a	part	of	this	data.	All	years	represented	in	this	chart	have	been	updated	to	reflect	these	contributions.  ** Due	to	rounding	of	this	total,	the	sum	of	the	constituent	parts	of	this	figure	listed	under	the	types	of	investments	below	does	not	match	this	figure.  *** Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the equipment through the HP direct sales channel on the  Internet at the time the grant was processed. We currently report employee volunteerism and contributions data for U.S. employees only. Participation in the HP U.S. Employee Giving Program. 2007–2011 [number of employees]    Participation in the HP U.S. Employee Giving Program 5,700 6,700 5,400 5,600 7,000 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007  156 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Cash and products donated by employees and HP and Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation matched funds*   [$ million USD]    Cash donated by U.S. employees**  $3.0 $3.6 $3.4 $3.2 $3.8    Cash from Hewlett-Packard Company  Foundation matched funds $2.0 $3.0 $2.3 $2.7 $3.1    Value of products donated by U.S. employees***  $1.9 $1.5 $1.4 $1.2 $1.3    Value of products from HP matched funds*** $6.5 $4.7 $4.2 $3.7 $3.8      Total $13.4 $12.8 $11.3 $10.8 $12.0   * Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation cash matching began in 2007.  ** Does	not	reflect	donations	made	to	disaster	relief	efforts.  *** Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the equipment through the HP direct sales channel on the  Internet at the time the grant was processed.  0 3 6 9 12 15 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007  157 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Tech gallery:  social innovation HP innovations help address critical environmental and social chal- lenges. We design with the environment in mind, and apply and  scale technology to transform and improve how people live and  work. This gallery is just a sampling. HP leverages our expertise to help solve pressing social challenges.  The following case studies showcase how we are using technology to  address critical problems in education, entrepreneurship, and health. Mobile and cloud solutions Global Authentication Service The Global Authentication Service  allows patients to easily check the authenticity of their medications  via mobile phone, using a code printed on their medication package.  Learn more.  Disease Surveillance HP and Positive Innovation for the Next  Generation (PING), the Botswana-based nongovernmental organiza- tion (NGO), developed a mobile phone app that provides Health  Ministry	officials	in	Botswana	with	vital	information	to	track,	respond	 to, and help prevent malaria epidemics. Learn more.  Technology infrastructure Early Infant Diagnosis The HP Early Infant Diagnosis (EID) project,  created in collaboration with the Clinton Health Access Initiative,  uses HP data centers and technology to automate the HIV testing  process, dramatically reducing turnaround times for test results  and helping to save lives. Learn more. mothers2mothers The South Africa-based NGO mothers2mothers  (m2m) provides counseling and educational services to new mothers  and HIV-positive pregnant women. HP is working with m2m to trans- form its information technology (IT) infrastructure and develop new,  more	efficient	processes	for	information	access	and	management.	 Learn more. ILA Trust The Ila Trust brings healthcare via mobile medical units   to very poor people in suburbs of New Delhi. HP helped equip  mobile clinics to use electronic health records—providing better  monitoring	for	patients	who	cannot	afford	hospitals.	Learn more.  Partners HealthCare HP helped build Partners HealthCare, a  powerful IT infrastructure with innovative software, ample storage  memory, and processing power to support advances in genetic  sequencing technologies. Learn more.  HP Learning Initiative for Entrepreneurs (HP LIFE) HP LIFE, the  global, online training program, helps students, aspiring and estab- lished entrepreneurs, and small business owners develop the IT and  business skills necessary to build successful companies and create  jobs. Learn more.  Research and innovation Patient-Centered Dashboard HP, in collaboration with the Lucile  Packard Childrens Hospital at Stanford, created an electronic  Patient-Centered Dashboard that helps prevent human error in  medical settings. Learn more.  Social Innovation Relay The Social Innovation Relay allows young  students the opportunity to think like social innovators and  develop ideas to help solve some of the worlds most pressing chal- lenges. During the worldwide, interactive web-based competition,  students receive mentoring from HP employees through virtual  rooms. Learn more.  HP Catalyst Initiative The HP Catalyst Initiative works to transform  teaching and learning in the areas of science, technology, engi- neering, and mathematics (STEM). HP provides technology and  financial	support	to	dedicated	consortia	to	foster	research	in	 advancing STEM education worldwide. Learn more.  158 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Public policy Sharing	knowledge	and	experience	with	government	officials	and	 regulators is an important role for business, as industry insights  can	contribute	to	effective	policies.	HP	engages	with	policy	makers	 to pursue laws and regulations that encourage growth and innova- tion in a socially and environmentally responsible manner. HPs  public policy work complies with all applicable laws and our  Standards of Business Conduct (SBC). Policy priorities in 2011 Our public policy work focuses on the areas below. In addition,  several themes cut across our priority areas, such as cloud  computing, privacy and data security, and education. More detail on  our policy positions and activities is available in our global issue briefs. Tax and economic incentives HP promotes tax policies and economic incentives that encourage  innovation, growth, and job creation. We advocate comprehensive  tax reform that will move the United States worldwide tax system  to a competitive territorial tax system, to help ensure U.S.-based  companies like HP can compete in global markets. We also work  with national governments to devise attractive incentives such as  research and development credits to encourage companies to  operate in those countries. Market access Sixty-six percent of HPs sales were outside the United States in  2011. We support comprehensive and progressive trade agreements  that include commitments to liberalize markets for our products and  services and increase transparency in government procurement,  regulations, and standards. We also support agreements that  include strong commitments based on clear rules to protect intellec- tual property, labor standards, and the environment. In 2011, the  United States Congress passed free trade agreements (FTAs) with  Colombia, Panama, and South Korea. HP executives and employees  supported these FTAs by writing more than 1,000 letters to  members of Congress and composing opinion editorial pieces that  were featured in local publications in Washington, D.C. HP strongly  supported these trade agreements as they eliminate barriers to the  spread of technology, enabling businesses to be more productive as  well as encouraging economic growth and job creation. Intellectual property rights Our	business	is	based	on	innovation	and	relies	on	fair	and	efficient	 intellectual property protection. However, many current patent and  copyright systems do not provide adequate protection for legiti- mate digital content distribution, so we support policy reform that  provides a reasonable balance between the interests of consumers,  technology equipment manufacturers, and intellectual property  rights holders. We also support further reform to curb abusive  patent litigation and strengthen the patent system in the United  States.	Additionally,	we	support	the	need	for	new,	more	effective	 systems for rights holders compensation.  159 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Anti-counterfeiting Counterfeiting poses a sizable challenge to HP globally and is more  sophisticated and pervasive than ever before. It costs the informa- tion technology industry an estimated $100 billion USD of annual  revenue globally.1 The sale of fake goods can damage our brand,  and the loss of income lessens our ability to create jobs and develop  new technological advancements. We work with law enforcement  and	government	officials	worldwide	to	help	remove	illicit	goods	 from the market. HP seeks to toughen laws and prosecute counterfeiters, whether  small vendors or large manufacturers. We are focusing on countries  in the Americas, the European Union (EU), the Middle East, Eastern  Europe,	and	East	Asia.	We	are	forming	country-specific	partner- ships to address the most pressing local concerns. In 2011, we supported recently passed U.S. legislation that allows  U.S. Customs to share information on suspected counterfeit imports  with the rights holder. We also led initiatives around the world to  educate	government	officials	on	the	economic	and	social	implica- tions of allowing counterfeit products into a local marketplace. Social and environmental responsibility HP continues to drive advancements in public policy that help  address global environmental and social concerns. A few examples  from 2011 include: 	Signing the 2C Challenge Communiqu produced by the Corporate  Leaders Network for Climate Action, in advance of the COP17  United Nations Climate Change Conference in Durban, South  Africa. Signed by hundreds of corporate leaders worldwide, the  communiqu calls for international government action to stabilize  global average surface temperatures at a maximum 2C above  preindustrial levels. 	Our response to the EU Commissions public consultation on cloud  computing, which highlighted our work on protecting privacy and  personal data. Consultation responses will inform the European  cloud computing strategy, due for publication in 2012. 	Our leadership in the development and support of a public/ private alliance for the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)  focused	on	in-region	minerals	traceability	and	certification.	We	 also worked hard to develop practical regulations aimed at  creating	transparency	on	the	use	of	conflict	minerals	in	products.	 In 2011, we supported the U.S. Congress, U.S. Securities and  Exchange Commission, and U.S. Department of State on the  implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act introduced in 2010. See  Conflict	minerals	on	page	87 for full details. Memberships and coalitions Most of our public policy engagement is carried out by our  Government Relations team. In addition, industry associations  provide	a	collective	voice	that	can	efficiently	reach	government	offi- cials. We list the major associations HP belongs to worldwide on our  Government Relations website and disclose the proportion of our  membership fees that each association in the United States used  for lobbying purposes in 2011. We	enhance	our	work	with	key	officials	in	regions	where	we	have	 significant	business	interests	by	engaging	external	consultants,	 including professional contract lobbyists with particular expertise  within their region. While not HP employees, they work with us  closely and strictly adhere to regulations within their country or  region, as well as HPs SBC. Political engagement In 2011, HP contributed $1,136,447 USD to state and local candi- dates, political memberships/sponsorships, and ballot measure  campaigns in the United States. These contributions aligned with  our policy positions and complied with HPs political guidelines,  SBC, and applicable laws. U.S. law prohibits corporate contributions to federal political  candidates. However, eligible employees can make voluntary  donations to the HP Political Action Committee (PAC) and legacy  EDS PAC. These are separate legal entities from HP that contribute  to campaigns for Democrat and Republican U.S. congressional  candidates who share our policy views. In 2011, these PACs  contributed a combined $542,200 USD. HP does not make political  contributions outside the United States. See historical data in Public policy on page 165. Learn more on our Government Relations website: 	Policies for corporate and PAC political contributions 	Criteria and responsibilities for approving political contributions 	List of candidates that received corporate or PAC contributions  in 2011 	List of section 527 organizations2 that received contributions from  HP in 2011 1 Managing the Risks of Counterfeiting in the Information Technology Industry, page 2, KPMG LLP and the Alliance for Gray Market and Counterfeit Abatement. 2 The term 527 organization refers to a U.S. political organization that is not regulated by the Federal Election Commission. These organizations are created under Section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code.  160 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Economic  impacts As the worlds largest technology company, HP both contributes to economies worldwide  and	is	influenced	by	broader	economic	factors	and	market	trends. Our	economic	contribution	results	directly	from	our	financial	transactions	and	indirectly	as	  a broader result of our business. 	Direct impacts include customer sales as well as employee salaries, supplier and tax  payments, shareholder dividends, and social investments. 	Indirect impacts occur when the money we spend circulates through the economy, for  example when employees, suppliers, and investors spend their earnings from HP. In addi- tion, HP products and solutions may help make businesses, health, and education systems  more	productive	and	profitable,	while	also	saving	money	by	decreasing	energy	use. Economic	trends	that	influence	our	business	include	the	continuing	rapid	shift	to	an	infor- mation economy and the burgeoning middle classes in emerging markets, which represent  growth markets for our products and services. Performance in fiscal year 2011 The table below outlines our direct and indirect economic impacts on each stakeholder  group	during	fiscal	year	2011	(FY11).	The	data dashboard summarizes HPs economic  performance. For more details, please see our financial	statements, interactive stock chart,  and annual report and 10-K.  161 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Group Direct economic impacts in FY11 Indirect economic impacts in FY11 Suppliers HP made purchases from more than 1,000 production  suppliers* and tens of thousands of nonproduction  suppliers worldwide. Our spending continued to support employment in  supplier companies. Additionally, suppliers and their  workers pay taxes and support local economies, and  suppliers may pay dividends to their investors.  Employees HP	provided	compensation	and	benefits	to	nearly	 350,000 employees.** HPs workforce grew by 8%, and those employees pay  taxes and generate further economic activity by  spending the money they earn. Customers HPs net revenue was $127 billion USD.*** We	continued	to	offer	reliable,	high-quality	products	 and services to help customers improve productivity.  For business customers, this may increase the employ- ment they create and taxes they pay. Customers can  save money through improved energy	efficiency.  Sales, marketing,  and distribution  partners HP helped create business for sales and service   partners worldwide. Our partners commercial relationships with HP can  contribute to their growth. Local, state,   and national  governments HP paid net cash income taxes of $1.134 billion USD. Taxes paid help enable government spending   and programs. Local, regional,   and national  communities HP invested $51.5 million USD in cash, products,   and services for nongovernmental organizations   and communities. Our social investment activities supported   further economic activity by improving education,  employment, and health.  Investors HP paid $844 million USD in dividends to  shareholders.  Investors may pay taxes on dividends.   * HP uses the term direct suppliers in other sections of this report to include both production suppliers that provide materials for HP products and nonproduction suppliers that provide services related to  HP products.  ** As of October 31, 2011.  *** FY11 non-GAAP net revenue includes an additional $0.2 billion USD of revenue resulting from the exclusion of contra revenue associated with sales incentive programs implemented in the fourth quarter in  connection	with	the	wind	down	of	HPs	webOS	device	business,	net	of	fourth	quarter	webOS	device	revenue.	Non-GAAP	earnings	and	operating	profit	information	excludes	after-tax	costs	of	$3.3	billion	USD,	 or $1.56 USD per diluted share, related to the wind down of HPs webOS device business, impairment of goodwill and purchased intangible assets, amortization of purchased intangible assets, restructuring  charges, and acquisition-related charges.    162 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Data dashboard:  society Supply chain responsibility 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Suppliers engaged in SER program [total, cumulative] 601 631 716 879 907 SER audits conducted [total, cumulative] 354 486 591 681 760 Initial audits [total, cumulative] 204 236 261 294 329 Follow-up audits [total, cumulative] 144 220 291 319 339 Full re-audits [total, cumulative] 6 30 39 68 92 Audit findings (See Detailed audit findings on page 102)  Suppliers engaged in capability building [total, cumulative] 32 55 68 80 126 U.S. purchasing with small businesses* [$ million USD] $3,106 $3,365 $3,691 $4,316 $4,400 U.S. purchasing with minority-owned businesses*, **  [$ million USD] $827 $733 U.S. purchasing with women-owned businesses*, **  [$ million USD] $861 $476   * All	figures	are	for	U.S.	purchases	from	U.S.-based	businesses.	Data	is	for	the	12-month	period	ending	September	30	of	the	year	noted.	Data	beginning	in	2009	includes	HP	Enterprise	Services	(formerly	EDS)	 spending. Data prior to 2009 does not.  ** HP did not report this metric prior to 2010, so data before that year is not available. Beginning in 2011, we did not allow companies to be counted in both the minority-owned businesses and women-owned  businesses categories, which decreased the total amounts compared with the prior year.  163 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society HP people 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of HP employees (approximate)* 172,000 321,000 304,000 325,000 350,000 Worldwide workforce demographics—employees** [women as a percentage of total employees] Americas 31.0% 30.8% 35.0% 34.3%  33.3% Europe, Middle East, and Africa 28.4% 28.1% 30.0% 30.5%  29.8% Asia	Pacific	and	Japan 30.0% 30.9% 32.5% 33.1%  32.3% Worldwide 30.0% 30.1% 32.9% 32.9%  32.0% Worldwide workforce demographics—managers** [women as a percentage of total managers] Americas 25.3% 25.2% 28.3% 27.8%  28.7% Europe, Middle East, and Africa 17.6% 18.5% 20.0% 19.8%  20.9% Asia	Pacific	and	Japan 18.6% 20.2% 21.2% 21.8%  22.3% Worldwide 21.5% 22.0% 24.3% 24.1%  24.8% Global new hires, by gender*** [as a percentage of total] Female 31.8% 34.9% 35.6% 35.2%  32.7% Male 68.2% 65.1% 64.4% 64.8%  67.3% U.S. workforce demographics (See Diversity and inclusion on page 125 for detailed data)  U.S. new hires, by ethnicity**** [as a percentage of total] White 69.0% 67.2% 65.0%	 61.7% 52.4% All minorities 30.1% 32.4% 34.5% 34.8% 31.1% Black 6.8% 8.1%	 11.2% 14.5% 7.7% Hispanic 6.3% 6.9% 7.1% 7.1% 6.7% Asian 16.5% 15.7% 12.5%	 10.5% 14.6% Native American 0.5% 0.6% 0.7% 0.3% 0.4% Lost workday case rate Global 0.10 0.07 0.08 0.10 0.09 Americas 0.16 0.13 0.17 0.16 0.13 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.14 0.08 0.04 0.11 0.11 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.01  164 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society HP people 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Recordable incidence rate Global 0.38 0.31 0.30 0.24 0.22 Americas 0.75 0.66 0.57 0.43 0.41 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.30 0.25 0.29 0.18 0.17 Asia	Pacific	and	Japan 0.04 0.05 0.03 0.03 0.02   * As of October 31 of the year noted. Numbers are rounded.  ** 2009 data excludes Brazil.  *** 2009	data	excludes	Brazil	and	reflects	the	time	period	January	1,	2009,	to	November	30,	2009.  **** Sum of White and All minorities does not equal 100%, and the sum of Black, Hispanic, Asian, and Native American does not equal the total for All minorities due to people who do not declare or  who	do	not	fall	into	these	categories.	White	and	Black	figures	for	2011	are	markedly	lower	from	previous	years,	as	16.1%	of	respondents	placed	themselves	in	a	new	Other	category,	which	does	not	 allow	identification	by	ethnicity.	    Lost workday case rate is the number of work-related injuries that result in time away from work per 100 employees working a full year. The U.S. industry average in 2009 was 0.3 (2010 data did not include  the	North	American	Industry	Classification	System	code	used	in	previous	years.	Thus,	2009	data	was	used	because	it	was	the	most	recent	available).	Americas	includes	incidents	occurring	in	Argentina,	Brazil,	 Canada, Panama, Puerto Rico, and the United States. Europe, Middle East, and Africa includes incidents occurring in Belgium, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Morocco, Netherlands, Poland, Spain, and the  United	Kingdom.	Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	includes	incidents	occurring	in	Japan	and	Singapore.   Recordable	incidence	rate	is	the	number	of	all	work-related	lost-time	and	no-lost-time	cases	requiring	more	than	first	aid	per	100	employees	working	a	full	year.	The	U.S.	industry	average	in	2009	was	0.5	 (2010	data	did	not	include	the	North	American	Industry	Classification	System	code	used	in	previous	years.	Thus,	2009	data	was	used	because	it	was	the	most	recent	available).	Americas	includes	incidents	 occurring in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, Panama, Puerto Rico, the United States, and Venezuela. Europe, Middle East, and Africa includes incidents occurring in Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Israel,  Italy,	Morocco,	Netherlands,	Poland,	Spain,	Switzerland,	and	the	United	Kingdom.	Asia	Pacific	and	Japan	includes	incidents	occurring	in	Australia,	India,	Japan,	Singapore,	and	South	Korea. Social innovation 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Social investments* [$ million USD] $49.8 $52.5 $56.1 $44.9 $51.5 Cash $23.3 $24.9 $21.1 $27.3 $20.3 Products and services** $26.5 $27.5 $35.0 $17.7 $31.2 Social investments, percentage of pre-tax profits 0.54% 0.50% 0.60% 0.41% 0.57% Participation in the HP U.S. Employee Giving Program  [number of employees] 5,700 6,700 5,400 5,600 7,000 Cash and products donated by employees and HP and  Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation matched funds***  [$ million USD] $13.4 $12.8 $11.3 $10.8 $12.0 Cash donated by U.S. employees****  $3.0 $3.6 $3.4 $3.2 $3.8 Cash from Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation  matched funds $2.0 $3.0 $2.3 $2.7 $3.1 Value of products donated by U.S. employees**  $1.9 $1.5 $1.4 $1.2 $1.3 Value of products from HP matched funds** $6.5 $4.7 $4.2 $3.7 $3.8   * Data excludes contributions to the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation and employee donations, but includes HP's matching contributions and contributions from the Hewlett-Packard Company Founda- tion to other organizations. Prior to 2010, HP did not report contributions from the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation to other organizations as a part of this data. All years represented in this chart have  been	updated	to	reflect	these	contributions.	Some	segments	do	not	add	up	to	total	due	to	rounding.  ** Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the equipment through the HP direct sales channel on the Internet at the time the grant was  processed.   *** Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation cash matching began in 2007.  **** Does	not	reflect	donations	made	to	disaster	relief	efforts.  165 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Public policy 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Contributions to U.S. state and local candidates, political  memberships/sponsorships, and ballot measure campaigns  [$ USD] $888,416 $1,035,650 $1,052,400 $1,284,900 $1,136,447 HP Political Action Committee contributions* [$ USD] $225,300 $219,600 $260,000 $378,000 $542,200   * Reflects	combined	HP	Political	Action	Committee	and	legacy	EDS	Political	Action	Committee	contributions.	 Economic impacts  2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Net revenue [$ million USD] $114,552 $126,033 $127,245 Net investment in property, plant, and equipment   [$ million USD] $3,200 $3,531 $3,540  Research and development spending [$ million USD] $2,819 $2,959 $3,254 Number of patents (total, approximate)  33,000  37,000  36,000  401(k) expense* [$ million USD] $568 $535 $626 Advertising cost [$ million USD] $700 $1,000 $1,200 Total dividend payments [$ million USD] $766 $771 $844 Share repurchases [$ million USD] $5,140 $11,042 $10,117   * HP match and expenses for employee 401(k) retirement accounts.   166 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Goals: society Ethics and human rights Ethics and compliance Year Goal 2011 Continue to increase the volume of consulting matters. Progress: We increased the volume of consulting matters by 34.8% in 2011, compared with 2010.   This resulted from a widespread internal communication campaign. Further improve quality of communications and training, including tone at the top. Progress: In 2011, we refreshed our ethics and compliance training for new employees and   introduced tailored training for country managers and salespeople. See Communication and training  on page 83 for details. Conduct wellness assessments for 44* compliance functions and manage remediation plans   to completion. Progress: In	2011,	the	Compliance	Office	continued	to	assess	the	maturity	of	compliance	functions	 throughout	our	business	and	regions	against	predefined	standards.	This	process	identifies	new	legal	 risks	and	tracks	progress	against	recommendations	identified	during	our	wellness	assessment	 process, which began in 2009. 2012 Assess	effectiveness	of	training	and	consulting	programs. Lead growth market compliance. Improve localization of training and programs. Begin expanding Wellness Assessments to HP subsidiaries. Mature HPs human rights program to mirror other compliance programs.   * During 2011, several new compliance functions were added but the total number of compliance functions at HP changed from 47 to 44 due to the consolidation of several functions.  167 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Conflict minerals Year Goal 2011 Actively participate in the pilot program implementation of the Organisation for Economic  Co-operation and Development (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance* to support broad use and   best-practice development. Progress: We are participating in a 1-year pilot implementation to test the guidance, and   will provide feedback to the OECD through a series of three questionnaires and in-person   multi-stakeholder meetings.   * Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Due	Diligence	Guidance	for	responsible	supply	chains	of	minerals	from	conflict-affected	and	high-risk	areas. Supply chain responsibility Year Goal 2011 Train more than 13,000 workers (cumulative) in HPs Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC)  Code of Conduct labor rights.  Progress: Achieved. HP reached more than 16,800 workers by the end of 2011. Launch predeparture training for suppliers and schools to address the emerging issue of recruiting  new hires from vocational training schools. Progress: Achieved. In 2011, more than 9,000 graduates and almost 4,000 student workers  completed predeparture training. Expand public health training, including the HERproject, anti-discrimination training, and hepatitis B  prevention, to an additional 20,000 workers. Progress: Achieved. HP reached 50,000 new workers in 2011. Increase social and environmental responsibility (SER) awareness and introduce capability building to  25 nonproduction suppliers in each of China and India. Progress: Twenty-one nonproduction suppliers joined capability building programs in China and 10  suppliers joined in India. Suppliers representing 50% of high-risk production spend will report on key performance indicators. Progress: Achieved.  168 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Year Goal 2012 Transparency Promote supplier SER ownership and transparency by engaging with suppliers representing 90% of  final	assembly	spend	to	develop	strategies	and/or	participate	in	training	for	publication	of	Global	 Reporting Initiative (GRI)–based annual corporate social responsibility reports. (See Supplier list for  information on which suppliers currently publish GRI-based reports.) Outreach Advance	outreach	efforts	by	formalizing	our	supply	chain	SER	partnership	with	multi-stakeholder	 programs and/or governments in high-risk areas.  Promote worker rights awareness and grievance mechanisms in emerging supply chain regions. Performance management Extend the reach of our highest-priority supplier improvement programs by requiring 75% of high- risk production suppliers (by spend) with working hours major nonconformances to report on key  performance indicators.*  Expand our audit program by increasing the number of supplier audits by 40% from 2011 levels and  reaching 850 cumulative audits.  Expand the scope of our nonproduction audit program by performing audits in new geographic regions. Standardize auditor capabilities by ensuring 100% of HP lead auditors are trained in the Electronic  Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) Labor and Ethics Lead  Auditor	course,	and	pursuing	certification	of	all	HP	lead	auditors	to	the	International	Register	of	 Certified	Auditors	(IRCA)	EICC-GeSI	Auditor	Certification.	 Promote conformance to SER standards further down in the supply chain by validating that 75% of  high-risk production suppliers (by spend) have SER programs in place with their suppliers.*   * Goal reworded from previous years for clarity.   169 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Supplier diversity Year Goal 2011 Increase the number of suppliers reporting Tier II diverse spending. Progress: Achieved. Reported Tier II diverse spending increased 9.5% in 2011 compared with 2010.  Expand Global Supplier Diversity programs outside the United States. Progress: Achieved (see Supplier diversity on page 115). We have increased local employee   participation in supplier diversity events. Institute pan-HP Global Supplier Diversity Ambassadors Council to support Global Supplier Diversity  initiatives and outreach. Progress: Achieved. We also introduced a Global Governance Council in 2012 to ensure compliance  with global public sector enterprise customer needs. 2012 Increase the number of suppliers reporting Tier II diverse spending and the total amount of spend. Privacy Year Goal 2011 Deploy	a	clear,	simplified	privacy	notice	to	improve	transparency.	 Progress: We introduced quick links to make our online privacy policy easier to navigate and read. Mandate the companywide use of the HP Privacy Advisor tool to improve compliance. Progress: HP Privacy Advisor has been implemented companywide. Address	high-risk	areas	identified	by	the	Privacy	and	Data	Protection	Board	(PDPB)	through	the  integration of HPs Privacy Assurance audit capabilities. Progress: Four	priority	areas	identified	by	the	PDPB	have	been	addressed	through	our	Privacy	 Assurance program, Privacy by Design, and HP Privacy Advisor. See Privacy on page 117 for full details. Obtain	HP	Internal	Audit	certification	for	the	Privacy	Assurance	program. Progress: Achieved. 2012 Continue to participate in key privacy initiatives to expand external thought leadership and drive  next-generation policies and practices, working with regulators, nongovernmental organizations,  and industry. Our aim is to advance new concepts of accountability and to further develop meaningful  choice and protection for consumers that also allows companies to innovate. Participate	in	the	international	implementation	of	the	Asia-Pacific	Economic	Cooperation	Cross- Border Privacy Rules.  Integrate	current	HP	Records	Management	team	into	the	HP	Privacy	Office	to	create	a	Privacy	and	 Information Management organization.  170 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society HP people Engaging our people Year Goal 2011 Align all recognition initiatives to a global framework, make best practices in recognition training  available to all managers, encourage managers to use both nonmonetary and eAwards to recognize  employee contributions, and encourage and support peer recognition. Progress: Achieved Improve employee engagement as measured by Voice of the Workforce scores.  Progress: Achieved 2012 Increase employee engagement by 5% as measured by the Employee Engagement Index (EEI).*  Increase HP vs. industry score on Recommend HP as a great place to work.   * HPs EEI is a set of survey questions that rate employees experiences related to productivity and engagement, measured in HPs annual Voice of the Workforce (VoW) survey. Building careers Year Goal 2011 Drive next-generation learning strategies and enhance learning at HP by increasing the number of  solutions with manager coaching, mentoring, and new technologies, and increasing reach of training  to 100%. Progress: Achieved Enable corporate transformations in supply chain, sales, and emerging markets groups by showing  the business impact of learning solutions.  Progress: Achieved Deliver	rapid,	effective	on-boarding	and	manager	training,	aligned	to	business	priorities	as	measured	 by exceeding learner and instructor evaluation metrics.  Progress: Achieved 2012 Develop and deliver world-class learning across onboarding, leadership, sales, professional skills,  and technical development priorities. Drive next-generation learning strategies through learning and development innovation, technology,  and tools.  171 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Diversity and inclusion Year Goal 2011 Hold six face-to-face diversity leadership summits at HP locations worldwide. Progress: Achieved 2012 Expand global focus on diverse talent to align with business need. Broaden focus on inclusion to drive employee engagement. Health and safety Year Goal 2011 Improve	risk	identification,	auditing,	and	issue	resolution	at	HP	sites	through	our	new	global	  assurance initiative. Progress: Achieved. Implemented a worldwide site ranking system and standardized audit templates  to guide our Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS) auditing activities, established a central issue  management tool to analyze results and track resolution, and provided auditor training to our world- wide	EHS	staff. Social innovation Year Goal 2011 Build on the progress and experience of project implementation in 2010 by scaling and replicating  flagship	programs. Progress: We scaled, expanded, and replicated several programs, including Early Infant Diagnosis,  Global Authentication Service, HP Catalyst Initiative, HP Learning Initiative for Entrepreneurs (HP  LIFE), and Social Innovation Relay. Expand	and	accelerate	our	collaborative	efforts	to	define,	develop,	and	implement	new	and/or	 enhanced solutions for global health (in support of Millennium Development Goals 4, 5, and 6). Progress:  	Millennium Development Goal 4 (reducing child mortality) HP continued its work with the   Clinton Health Access Initiative to expand the Early Infant Diagnosis program to Uganda. We   also developed an electronic patient-centered dashboard to help prevent human error in   medical settings. 	Millennium Development Goal 5 (improving maternal health) HP continued to support   mothers2mothers	by	implementing	an	electronic	database	to	help	improve	efficiency	across	  the organization. 	Millennium Development Goal 6 (combating HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases) HP and   Positive Innovation for the Next Generation created a mobile app in Botswana and Kenya to   track, respond to, and help prevent malaria epidemics. We continued to expand the Global  Authentication Service, and in 2011 announced availability in India, allowing more people to   verify the authenticity of their medication. We partnered with SafePoint Trust to develop a   software	platform	to	encourage	medical	staff	to	use	a	syringe	only	once	and	then	discard	it.  172 Contents Commitment Environment HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Society Year Goal 2011 Engage senior HP leadership to communicate HPs renewed commitment to global community  involvement through pro bono and skill-based volunteering. Progress: Our senior leaders established pro bono programs in various countries, including Canada,  China, Mexico, Singapore, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Create necessary infrastructure, tools, metrics, and partnerships to enable strategic community  involvement throughout the company at local, country, regional, and corporate levels. Progress: We	launched	the	Social	Impact	portal	and	network	to	help	employees	find	volunteer	opportu- nities. Moreover, the vast majority of HP employees are in a country with a Social Impact lead who helps  identify volunteer opportunities that match an employees interests. Pilot various signature programs that recognize HP employees commitment to communities around  the world. Progress: We launched a new human resources pro bono program in China, where HP volunteers  used their expertise in technology, engineering, human resources, manufacturing, and other areas to  help local communities. Collaborate with global education leaders to improve educational opportunity, quality, and outcome  in STEM+ education. Progress: We expanded the HP Catalyst Initiative consortia by adding 21 new organizations. Reward solutions and create new models that incubate the innovative use of technology in formal  and informal education. Progress: We added a new consortium, STEM-preneur, and supported new education experiences in  rural and urban settings. Build capacity in entrepreneurship education through the HP Learning Initiative for Entrepreneurs   (HP LIFE) and the partnership with Junior Achievement (JA). Progress: We added 40 new training centers in 2011—expanding the HP LIFE program to 340 training  centers	in	49	countries.	HP	LIFE	continued	to	develop	strong	online	and	offline	learning	content	in	a	 variety	of	different	languages.	JA	and	HP	launched	the	interactive,	web-based	competition	Social	 Innovation	Relay.	In	its	first	year,	nearly	10,000	students	across	11	countries	participated.  174  Overview 175  Assurance 176  UN Global Compact 177  GRI index About this report This report provides an in-depth look into HPs global citizenship   policies, programs, and performance through 2011. Each year, we report  on the progress weve made toward our goals and include perspectives  from	external	stakeholders	about	our	global	citizenship	efforts.	  174 Contents Commitment Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report Overview This report describes HPs global citizenship policies, programs,   and	performance	through	the	2011	fiscal	year	(which	ended	 October 31, 2011). It is intended for people seeking in-depth   information in these areas, including customers, industry analysts,  socially responsible investors, nongovernmental organizations,  employees, and sustainability specialists. Our global citizenship  website provides summary information for readers seeking an  overview of our approach and performance.  We	report	yearly	to	reflect	our	progress,	changes	to	our	  business, emerging issues, and stakeholder feedback. We  consider external standards such as the Global Reporting  Initiative and the United Nations Global Compact, as well as  reporting trends and best practices.  Previous reports are available from the downloads page of   our global citizenship website.  Reference pages  The pages listed below provide quick access to commonly  requested information. In this report: 	Assurance on page 175 	Data dashboard: environment on page 69 and   Data dashboard: society on page 162 	GRI index on page 177  	UN Global Compact on page 176 On our global citizenship website: 	Affiliations	and	memberships 	Awards 	Tech gallery 	Perspectives 	Policies Scope, dates, and measures 	The information in this report is current as of the date of its initial  publication.	This	report	has	not	been	updated	to	reflect	any	 changes that may have occurred after such date, including, among  other things, any changes to HPs business or strategy. HP assumes  no	obligation	and	does	not	intend	to	update	this	report	to	reflect	 any such changes. 	The information on this site covers all HP operations, but does not  cover joint ventures. 	All	references	to	years	are	to	HPs	fiscal	year,	which	ends	October	 31, unless otherwise stated. 	All references to dollars are to U.S. dollars (USD). 	Tonnes refers to metric tonnes. (One metric tonne is equivalent  to 2,205 pounds.) Metrics and goals The metrics and goals in this report are established by the HP  teams responsible for measuring and achieving them, in consulta- tion with internal, and in some cases external, stakeholders, and  with reference to leading practices. This ensures our metrics  provide a meaningful and balanced picture of HPs performance,  and that our goals are realistic yet challenging. Collecting data from hundreds of sites worldwide is complex, and  the process can vary by business unit, function, and geography. As a  result,	it	can	be	difficult	to	define	and	implement	measures	for	the	 whole company. We continue to work on standardizing our  measurement systems and metrics. Data is rounded as needed to  reflect	the	appropriate	level	of	certainty. Another challenge is to report performance beyond our immediate  operations. For example, we must make assumptions when   estimating product energy consumption and the resulting green- house gas (GHG) emissions, or the percentage of HP products sold  that are recycled. Wherever possible, we describe the context for performance data  so readers can understand any limitations and draw appropriate  conclusions. See Data dashboard: environment on page 69 and Data dashboard:  society on page 162 for more detail. Your feedback We welcome feedback and consider it when reviewing our approach  and reporting our performance for subsequent years. We invite  readers to provide feedback on our global citizenship activities and  this report using our online form.  Forward-looking statements This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks,  uncertainties, and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever  materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP   175 Contents Commitment Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report may	differ	materially	from	those	expressed	or	implied	by	such	 forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other  than statements of historical fact are statements that could be  deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to  statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management  for future operations, including the expected development, imple- mentation, and achievement of environmental, social, and  governance policies, goals, and objectives; statements concerning  the existing or expected development, performance, addressable  market, or market share relating to products or services and the  impact of those products and services on global issues, the envi- ronment, and other elements of society; statements regarding  current or future macroeconomic or market trends and events and  the	impact	of	those	trends	and	events	on	HP	and	its	financial	 performance; statements about the merits of an investment in HP  securities; any statements of expectation or belief; and any state- ments of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks,  uncertainties, and assumptions include the impact of macroeco- nomic, market, and geopolitical trends and events; the  development and transition of new products and services, and the  enhancement of existing products and services to meet customer  needs and respond to emerging technological or other trends; the  competitive pressures faced by HPs businesses; the protection of  HPs intellectual property assets, including intellectual property  licensed from third parties; integration and other risks associated  with business combination and investment transactions; the hiring  and retention of key employees; expectations and assumptions  relating to the execution and timing of cost reduction programs   and restructuring and integration plans; the resolution of pending  investigations, claims and disputes; and other risks that are  described	in	HPs	filings	with	the	Securities	and	Exchange	 Commission, including HPs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal	year	ended	October	31,	2011.	HP	assumes	no	obligation	and	 does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. Assurance We realize that many readers seek assurance that the information  we	provide	in	our	report	is	an	accurate	and	complete	reflection	of	 our	performance.	Our	approach	combines	external	verification	of	 selected content, other forms of external review, and assessment  by HPs internal audit group. External verification  We	provide	external	verification	for	information	in	three	focus	areas: 	Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions In addition to an internal review,  we	commission	independent	auditor	Bureau	Veritas	Certification	 to verify our global GHG emissions measurements and annual  reporting under the GHG measurement and reporting protocols of  the World Resources Institute and World Economic Forum. Learn  more in Energy and GHG emissions on page 53. 	Product reuse and recycling In 2011, HP completed its fourth  round of reuse and recycling vendor audits under its expanded  program	guidelines.	Our	third-party	auditing	firm,	Environmental	 Resources Management (ERM), assessed 14 reuse and 39 recy- cling vendor facilities in 24 countries. Learn more in Vendor audits  on page 51. 	Supply chain responsibility	HP	engages	third-party	audit	firms	  to	conduct	verification	audits	of	our	suppliers.	These	include	 suppliers	associated	with	a	specific	allegation	in	nongovernmental	 organization	reports.	We	also	use	third-party	audit	findings	to	 validate our internal audit results. Learn more in Our approach  on page 96. Other external reviews  As part of HPs global ISO 14001 and site Occupational Health and  Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 registrations, we are  assessed by independent, accredited auditors, including Bureau  Veritas	Certification	and	BSI	Management	Systems. Internal Audit  HP Internal Audit assesses risk and evaluates control environ- ments for several operations, including, but not limited to,  financial	transactions	and	reporting,	systems	security,	and	process	 flows.	However,	compliance	and	ethics,	privacy,	and	environment,	 health, and safety may be evaluated, depending on the nature of the  operation being audited.  In	addition,	qualified	HP	professionals	conduct	internal	audits	of	  the environmental, health, and safety management systems at   our operations, and we report the results to senior management.  176 Contents Commitment Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report UN Global Compact HP is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a set of  voluntary commitments for companies to improve human rights,  labor conditions, the environment, and anti-corruption controls.  Our	president	and	chief	executive	officer,	Meg	Whitman,	expresses	 HPs support for the Global Compact in her executive letter. The  table below links to the sections of this report that address the  Global Compacts ten principles. Principle  Information in report  Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally  proclaimed human rights. Human rights on page 85  Conflict	minerals	on	page	87 Supply chain responsibility on page 91 HP people on page 120 Privacy on page 117 Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights on page 85  Conflict	minerals	on	page	87 Supply chain responsibility on page 91 Labor standards Principle	3:	Businesses	should	uphold	the	freedom	of	association	and	the	effective	 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Human rights on page 85  Supply chain responsibility on page 91 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Human rights on page 85  Supply chain responsibility on page 91 Principle	5:	the	effective	abolition	of	child	labor;	and Human rights on page 85  Supply chain responsibility on page 91 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and  occupation. Human rights on page 85  Supply chain responsibility on page 91 Diversity and inclusion on page 125 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental  challenges; Materials on page 36 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Environmental sustainability on page 19 Products and solutions on page 29 Product reuse and recycling on page 47 HP operations on page 52 Supply chain responsibility on page 91 Principle	9:	encourage	the	development	and	diffusion	of	environmentally	friendly	 technologies. Products and solutions on page 29 HP operations on page 52 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including   extortion and bribery. Ethics and compliance on page 82 Supply chain responsibility on page 91  177 Contents Commitment Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report GRI index We considered the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3) when preparing this report. HP self-declares this  report to GRI Application Level B, as stated in the table below.  GRI Guidelines Application Level C B A Self-declared X Key Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage GRI guideline  Coverage Location within report Vision and strategy 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organiza- tion about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and  its strategy. Letter from CEO Meg Whitman on page 4 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Global citizenship strategy on page 7 Performance and challenges are described  throughout the report Organizational profile 2.1  Name of the organization.  HP	profile	on	page	5 2.2  Primary brands, products, and/or services.  HP	profile	on	page	5 2.3  Operational structure of the organization, including main divi- sions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures.  HP	profile	on	page	5 HP 2011 Annual Report 2.4  Location of organization's headquarters.  HP	profile	on	page	5 2.5  Number of countries where the organization operates, and names  of	countries	with	either	major	operations	or	that	are	specifically	 relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report.  HP	profile	on	page	5 HP list of major operations on page 65 Detailed	audit	findings on page 102 2.6  Nature of ownership and legal form.  HP	profile	on	page	5 2.7  Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors  served,	and	types	of	customers/beneficiaries).	 HP	profile	on	page	5 2.8  Scale of the reporting organization.  HP	profile	on	page	5 2.9  Significant	changes	during	the	reporting	period	regarding	size,	 structure, or ownership.  HP 2011 Annual Report 2.10  Awards received in the reporting period.  News and awards   178 Contents Commitment Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report GRI guideline  Coverage Location within report Report parameters 3.1  Reporting	period	(e.g.,	fiscal/calendar	year)	for	information	 provided.  Overview on page 174 3.2  Date of most recent previous report (if any).  Downloads  3.3  Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.).  Overview on page 174 3.4  Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.  Feedback 3.5  Process	for	defining	report	content.	 Global citizenship strategy on page 7 Overview on page 174 3.6  Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries,  leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers).  Overview on page 174 HP list of major operations on page 65 Detailed	audit	findings on page 102 3.7  State	any	specific	limitations	on	the	scope	or	boundary	of	  the report.  Overview on page 174 Data dashboard: environment on page 69 Data dashboard: society on page 162 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased   facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can  significantly	affect	comparability	from	period	to	period	and/or	 between organizations. Overview on page 174 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations,  including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations  applied to the compilation of the indicators and other informa- tion in the report. Data dashboard: environment on page 69 Data dashboard: society on page 162 Noted in relevant sections as appropriate  3.10 Explanation	of	the	effect	of	any	restatements	of	information	 provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement  (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature  of business, measurement methods). Data dashboard: environment on page 69 Data dashboard: society on page 162 Noted in relevant sections as appropriate 3.11 Significant	changes	from	previous	reporting	periods	in	the	scope,	 boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. Data dashboard: environment on page 69 Data dashboard: society on page 162 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in   the report. GRI index on page 177 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external  assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance   report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the  scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also   explain the relationship between the reporting organization   and the assurance provider(s). Assurance on page 175  179 Contents Commitment Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report GRI guideline  Coverage Location within report Governance 4.1  Governance structure of the organization, including committees  under	the	highest	governance	body	responsible	for	specific	 tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight.  Ethics and compliance on page 82 Global citizenship governance on page 10 4.2  Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also  an	executive	officer	(and,	if	so,	their	function	within	the	organiza- tion's management and the reasons for this arrangement).  Ethics and compliance on page 82 4.3  For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the  number of members of the highest governance body that are  independent and/or non-executive members.  Ethics and compliance on page 82 4.4  Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recom- mendations or direction to the highest governance body.  Contact the board 4.5  Linkage between compensation for members of the highest  governance body, senior managers, and executives (including  departure arrangements), and the organization's performance  (including social and environmental performance).  Corporate governance guidelines 4.6  Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure  conflicts	of	interest	are	avoided.	 Corporate governance guidelines 4.7  Process	for	determining	the	qualifications	and	expertise	of	the	 members of the highest governance body for guiding the organi- zation's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics.  Corporate governance guidelines  4.8  Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of  conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental,  and social performance and the status of their implementation.  Policies on page 17 Ethics and compliance on page 82 4.9  Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the  organization's	identification	and	management	of	economic,	envi- ronmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and  opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally  agreed upon standards, codes of conduct, and principles.  Global citizenship governance on page 10 Ethics and compliance on page 82 4.10  Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own  performance, particularly with respect to economic, environ- mental, and social performance.  Corporate governance guidelines  4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or  principle is addressed by the organization. Materials on page 36 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social char- ters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization  subscribes or endorses. UN Global Compact on page 176 Supply chain responsibility on page 91 Collaboration on page 21 Management and compliance on page 53 Approach on page 118 Health and safety on page 132 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations)  and/or national/international advocacy organizations. Affiliations	and	memberships	on	page	15  180 Contents Commitment Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report GRI guideline  Coverage Location within report 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Stakeholder engagement on page 12 4.15 Basis	for	identification	and	selection	of	stakeholders	with	whom	 to engage. Stakeholder engagement on page 12 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of  engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Stakeholder engagement on page 12 Collaboration on page 21 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stake- holder engagement, and how the organization has responded to  those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Stakeholder engagement on page 12 Collaboration on page 21 Performance: economic Disclosures on management approach. Economic impacts on page 160 HP 2011 Annual Report EC1  Direct economic value generated and distributed, including reve- nues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and  other community investments, retained earnings, and payments  to capital providers and governments. (Core)  Data dashboard: society on page 162 HP 2011 Annual Report EC2  Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the  organizations activities due to climate change. (Core)  Management and compliance on page 53 We report our GHG emissions yearly through  the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) EC3  Coverage	of	the	organizations	defined	benefit	plan	obligations.	 (Core)  HP 2011 Annual Report EC4  Significant	financial	assistance	received	from	government.	(Core)	 EC5  Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage compared with  local	minimum	wage	at	significant	locations	of	operation.	 (Additional)  EC6  Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based  suppliers	at	significant	locations	of	operation.	(Core)	 Supplier diversity on page 115 EC7  Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior manage- ment	hired	from	the	local	community	at	significant	locations	of	 operation. (Core)  EC8  Development and impact of infrastructure investments   and	services	provided	primarily	for	public	benefit	through	 commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. (Core)  Social innovation on page 147 EC9  Understanding	and	describing	significant	indirect	economic	 impacts, including the extent of impacts. (Additional)  Economic impacts on page 160  181 Contents Commitment Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report GRI guideline  Coverage Location within report Performance: environmental Disclosures on management approach. Environmental sustainability on page 19 Products and solutions on page 29 Product reuse and recycling on page 47 Management and compliance on page 53 Supply chain responsibility on page 91 EN1  Materials used by weight or volume. (Core)  Materials on page 36 Packaging on page 41 Paper on page 27 EN2  Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials.  (Core)  Materials on page 36 EN3  Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. (Core)  Data dashboard: environment on page 69 EN4  Indirect energy consumption by primary source. (Core)  Data dashboard: environment on page 69 EN5  Energy	saved	due	to	conservation	and	efficiency	improvements.	 (Additional)  Energy and GHG emissions on page 53 EN6  Initiatives	to	provide	energy-efficient	or	renewable	energy-based	 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as  a result of these initiatives. (Additional)  Use on page 44 EN7  Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions  achieved. (Additional)  Energy	efficiency	on	page	55 EN8  Total water withdrawal by source. (Core)  Water on page 61 EN9  Water	sources	significantly	affected	by	withdrawal	of	water.	 (Additional)  Water on page 61 EN10  Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused.  (Additional)  EN11  Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent  to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside  protected areas. (Core)  Remediation on page 65 EN12  Description	of	significant	impacts	of	activities,	products,	and	 services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high  biodiversity value outside protected areas. (Core)  Remediation on page 65 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. (Additional) EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing  impacts on biodiversity. (Additional) Remediation on page 65 EN15  Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list  species	with	habitats	in	areas	affected	by	operations,	by	level	of	 extinction risk. (Additional)  EN16  Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight.  (Core)  Data dashboard: environment on page 69   182 Contents Commitment Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report GRI guideline  Coverage Location within report EN17  Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight.  (Core)  Data dashboard: environment on page 69 EN18  Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions  achieved. (Additional)  Energy	efficiency	on	page	55 Renewable energy on page 57 Travel on page 58 Manufacturing on page 38 Transport on page 43 Use on page 44 EN19  Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. (Core)  Ozone-depleting substances on page 64 EN20  NOx,	SOx,	and	other	significant	air	emissions	by	type	and	weight.	 (Core)  HP does not report on this indicator because  its	emissions	in	this	area	are	insignificant	 given our current operations.  EN21  Total water discharge by quality and destination. (Core)  Data dashboard: environment on page 69 EN22  Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. (Core)  Waste and recycling on page 59 EN23  Total	number	and	volume	of	significant	spills.	(Core)	 Remediation on page 65 EN24  Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste  deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention  Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste  shipped internationally. (Additional)  EN25  Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water  bodies	and	related	habitats	significantly	affected	by	the	 reporting	organization's	discharges	of	water	and	runoff.	 (Additional)  EN26  Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and  services, and extent of impact mitigation. (Core)  Products and solutions on page 29 Tech gallery EN27  Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that  are reclaimed by category. (Core)  Product reuse and recycling on page 47 EN28  Monetary	value	of	significant	fines	and	total	number	of	non- monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws  and regulations. (Core)  EN29  Significant	environmental	impacts	of	transporting	products	and	 other goods and materials used for the organization's opera- tions, and transporting members of the workforce. (Additional)  Transport on page 43 Travel on page 58 EN30  Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by  type. (Additional)   183 Contents Commitment Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report GRI guideline  Coverage Location within report Performance: labor practices and decent work Disclosures on management approach. Human rights on page 85  Supply chain responsibility on page 91 HP people on page 120 Diversity and inclusion on page 125 Health and safety on page 132 LA1  Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and  region. (Core)  HP people on page 120 LA2  Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group,  gender, and region. (Core) LA3  Benefits	provided	to	full-time	employees	that	are	not	provided	 to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations.  (Additional)  LA4  Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining   agreements. (Core)  LA5  Minimum	notice	period(s)	regarding	significant	operational	 changes,	including	whether	it	is	specified	in	collective	  agreements. (Core)  LA6  Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint  management-worker health and safety committees that help  monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs.  (Additional)  LA7  Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absen- teeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. (Core)  Health and safety on page 132 LA8  Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control  programs in place to assist workforce members, their families,  or community members regarding serious diseases. (Core)  Health and safety on page 132 LA9  Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with  trade unions. (Additional)  LA10  Average hours of training per year per employee by employee  category. (Core)  Building careers on page 123 LA11  Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that  support the continued employability of employees and assist  them in managing career endings. (Additional)  Building careers on page 123 LA12  Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and  career development reviews. (Additional)  LA13  Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees  per category according to gender, age group, minority group  membership, and other indicators of diversity. (Core)  Diversity and inclusion on page 125 LA14  Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category.  (Core)   184 Contents Commitment Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report GRI guideline  Coverage Location within report Performance: human rights Disclosures on management approach. Human rights on page 85  Supply chain responsibility on page 91 HR1  Percentage	and	total	number	of	significant	investment	agree- ments that include human rights clauses or that have undergone  human rights screening. (Core)  HR2  Percentage	of	significant	suppliers	and	contractors	that	have	 undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. (Core)  Our approach on page 96 Performance on page 50 HR3  Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures  concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to opera- tions, including the percentage of employees trained.  (Additional)  HR4  Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken.  (Core)  Performance on page 50 HR5  Operations	identified	in	which	the	right	to	exercise	freedom	of	 association	and	collective	bargaining	may	be	at	significant	risk,	 and actions taken to support these rights. (Core)  Performance on page 50 Capability building on page 110 HR6  Operations	identified	as	having	significant	risk	for	incidents	of	 child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination  of child labor. (Core)  Performance on page 50 Capability building on page 110 HR7  Operations	identified	as	having	significant	risk	for	incidents	of	 forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the  elimination of forced or compulsory labor. (Core)  Performance on page 50 Capability building on page 110 HR8  Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's  policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that  are relevant to operations. (Additional)  HR9  Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indig- enous people and actions taken. (Additional)  Performance: society Disclosures on management approach. Management and compliance on page 53 Ethics and compliance on page 82 Public policy on page 158 SO1 Nature,	scope,	and	effectiveness	of	any	programs	and	practices	 that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communi- ties, including entering, operating, and exiting. (Core)  HP operations on page 52 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks  related to corruption. (Core)  SO3  Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-  corruption policies and procedures. (Core)  Ethics and compliance on page 82 SO4  Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. (Core)   185 Contents Commitment Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report GRI guideline  Coverage Location within report SO5  Public policy positions and participation in public policy develop- ment and lobbying. (Core)  Public policy on page 158 SO6  Total	value	of	financial	and	in-kind	contributions	to	political	 parties, politicians, and related institutions by country.  (Additional)  Public policy on page 158 SO7  Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti- trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. (Additional)  SO8  Monetary	value	of	significant	fines	and	total	number	of	non- monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and  regulations. (Core)  Performance: product responsibility Disclosures on management approach. Products and solutions on page 29 Product reuse and recycling on page 47 Privacy on page 117 PR1  Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products  and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of  significant	products	and	services	categories	subject	to	such	 procedures. (Core)  Products and solutions on page 29 Life cycle assessment on page 31 Design on page 34 Materials on page 36 Manufacturing on page 38 Packaging on page 41 Transport on page 43 Use on page 44 Product reuse and recycling on page 47 PR2  Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and  voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of prod- ucts and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes.  (Additional)  PR3  Type of product and service information required by procedures,  and	percentage	of	significant	products	and	services	subject	to	 such information requirements. (Core)  HP provides a wide range of information  related to many of its products, including  materials safety data sheets (MSDS),  product environmental information, eco- labels,	technical	regulations	and	certificates,	 and disassembly documents to tell recyclers  how to dismantle our products. PR4  Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and  voluntary codes concerning product and service information and  labeling, by type of outcomes. (Additional)  PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of  surveys measuring customer satisfaction. (Additional)  186 Contents Commitment Environment Society HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report GRI guideline  Coverage Location within report PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes  related to marketing communications, including advertising,  promotion, and sponsorship. (Core) HPs Standards of Business Conduct and  corporate guidelines set expectations  regarding its advertising practices. These  resources require that advertisements and  marketing collateral are fair, factual, and  complete. Advertising claims must be  formally substantiated with current factual  data before publishing. PR7 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and  voluntary codes concerning marketing communications,  including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of  outcomes. (Additional) PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of  customer privacy and losses of customer data. (Additional) PR9 Monetary	value	of	significant	fines	for	noncompliance	with	laws	 and regulations concerning the provision and use of products  and services. (Core)