Key data on sustainability within the Lufthansa Group Issue 2012  Balance www.lufthansa.com/responsibility  The new Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental  The new Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental is the advanced version of one of the  worlds most successful commercial aircraft. In close cooperation with Lufthansa,  Boeing has developed an aircraft that is optimized not only in terms of com- fort but also in all dimensions of climate and environmental responsibility. The  fully redesigned wings, extensive use of weight-reducing materials and innova- tive engine technology ensure that this aircrafts eco-effi ciency has again been  improved signifi cantly in comparison with its predecessor: greater fuel effi - ciency, lower emissions and signifi cant noise reductions (also see page 27).  The Queen of the Skies, as many Jumbo enthusiasts call the Dash Eight,  offers an exceptional travel experience in all classes of service, especially  in the exclusive First Class and the entirely new Business Class. In this way,  environmental effi ciency and the highest levels of travel comfort are brought  into harmony. Lufthansa has ordered 20 aircraft of this type. You will fi nd further information on sustainability  within the Lufthansa Group at: www.lufthansa.com/responsibility Order your copy of our Annual Report 2011 at: www.lufthansa.com/investor-relations  1  Source: Lufthansa Annual Report 2011 2  Values 2011 do not include bmi (see About this report on page 5);   comparative 2010 value adjusted for bmi. 3  For the reporting year 2011 the following companies are included:  Lufthansa German Airlines (including Lufthansa Italia and Lufthansa  Regional: Lufthansa CityLine, Air Dolomiti, Eurowings, Contact Air,  Augsburg Airways), Lufthansa Cargo, SWISS (including Edelweiss  Air), Austrian Airlines and Germanwings. Excluding the share of  third parties as Lufthansa can influence neither performance nor the  equipment used (see also table Share of third parties on page 66). 4  Types of flights taken into account: all scheduled and charter flights. 5  Values do not include bmi. 6  See also table Fuel consumption on page 66. 7  The emissions values 2010 (excluding CO2) were corrected as a   calculation error occurred in the preceding year. 8  Companies referred to as in 3, but including the services of third  parties, as these contribute to the Groups results. Types of flights   as in 4, but including ferry flights, as these represent costs.  9  Balance: segments (operational perspective);   Annual Report: distance (customer perspective); one distance can  include several segments, e.g. in the event of stops en route. 10 Balance: on the basis of all passengers aboard;   Annual Report: on the basis of all revenue passengers. Editorial information Published by Deutsche Lufthansa AG Lufthansa Group Communications, FRA CI Senior Vice President: Klaus Walther Concept, text and editors Media Relations Lufthansa Group, FRA CI/G Director: Christoph Meier Bernhard Jung Claudia Walther in cooperation with various departments and Petra Menke Redaktionsbro Design and production organic Marken-Kommunikation GmbH Copy deadline 18 May 2012 Photo credits Jens Grlich/MO CGI (cover, page 5, 7, 35, 85) SWISS (page 12) Brussels Airlines (page 13) Reto Hoffmann (page 24) AeroLogic (page 29) Fraport AG/Stefan Rebscher (page 43) Werner Hennies (page 44) Ulf Bschleb (page 68 top) Dr. Gnter Nowald (page 91, 98, 99) HelpAlliance (page 93, 94, 95 bottom) Cargo Human Care (page 96) Grzenich-Orchester (page 100) Others: Lufthansa Group photo archive Paper Content: ENVIRO TOP, recycling paper made from 100 % recycled paper. Produced without optical   brightening agents, without chlorine bleach.   Certificate: Environmental label   The Blue Angel – RAL-UZ 14. Cover: LuxoSamtoffset Reprints, including excerpts, only with written   permission from the publisher and by citing   Deutsche Lufthansa AG as the source (text and  images). In this case we ask that you send us a   copy or clipping. Printed in the Federal Republic of Germany  ISSN 1612-0906 Balance 2012 1 a  a Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 2 At a glance At a glance i Business performance data1,2 2011 2010 Change Revenue million  28,734 26,459  + 8.6 %  of which traffic revenue million  23,779 21,466 + 10.8 % Operating result million  820 1,020 – 19.6 % Profit/loss from operating activities million  773 1,386 – 44.2 % Net profit/loss for the period million  – 13 1,131 Total assets million  28,081 29,320 – 4.2 % Cash flow from operating activities million  2,356 2,992 – 21.3 % Capital expenditure million  2,566 2,273 + 12.9 % Equity ratio percent 28.6 28.4 0.2 PP Personnel data 2 2011 2010 Change Number of employees (on 31.12., respectively) 116,365 113,406 + 2.6 %  of these, in Germany 67,263 65,159 + 3.1 %  of these, outside Germany 49,102 48,247 + 1.7 % Staff costs1 million  6,678 6,491 + 2.9 % Revenue/employee1 thousand  249 233 + 6.7 % Staff costs/revenue1 percent 23.2 24.5 – 1.3 PP Average age years 40.8 40.7 + 0.1 Y Part-time ratio, absolute percent 27.1 26.9 + 0.2 PP Part-time ratio, men percent 13.3 13.6 – 0.3 PP Part-time ratio, women percent 44.2 43.9 + 0.3 PP Share of women in management percent 13.6 13.1 + 0.5 PP Environmental data 3,4 20115 2010 Change Resource consumption Fuel consumption6 tonnes 9,023,671 8,459,255 + 6.7 % Fuel consumption, specific, passenger transportation l/100 pkm 4.18 4.20 – 0.4 % Fuel consumption, specific, freight transport g/tkm 231 231 + 0.2 % Emissions7 Carbon dioxide emissions tonnes 28,424,568 26,646,655 + 6.7 % Carbon dioxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation kg/100 pkm 10.53 10.58 – 0.4 % Nitrogen oxide emissions tonnes 133,903 124,144 + 7.9 % Nitrogen oxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g/100 pkm 49.4 48.8 + 1.3 % Carbon monoxide emissions tonnes 20,152 19,066 + 5.7 % Carbon monoxide emissions, specific, passenger transportation g/100 pkm 8.2 8.4 – 2.0 % Unburned hydrocarbons tonnes 2,252.8 2,100.4 + 7.3 % Unburned hydrocarbons, specific, passenger transportation g/100 pkm 0.9 0.9 + 0.2 % Transport performance data Balance3,4,5 Change Annual Report2,8 Change Number of flights9 1,012,675 + 3.1 % 1,050,728 + 4.1 % Passengers carried10 98,122,199 + 10.9 % 100,602,543 + 8.5 % Freight and mail carried tonnes 2,120,191 + 4.8 % 2,120,191 + 4.8 % Seat kilometers offered, SKO million pkm 253,306 + 10.8 % 258,263 + 10.2 % Freight tonne kilometers offered, FTKO million tkm 14,954 + 5.4 % 16,260 + 6.3 % Tonne kilometers offered, TKO million tkm 40,052 + 8.6 % 40,798 + 8.3 % Passenger kilometers transported, PKT10 million pkm 202,656 + 8.3 % 200,376 + 7.5 % Freight tonne kilometers transported (incl. third-party performance), FTKT million tkm 9,710 + 3.2 % 10,861 + 4.1 % Tonne kilometers transported, TKT million tkm 30,071 + 6.5 % 29,906 + 5.8 %  3 a Balance 2012 continue to optimize systematically. Last year,  we successfully concluded the six-month trial of  biofuel in scheduled operations. As this type of  fuel has proven its fitness for daily operations, we  are now concentrating on suitability, availability,  sustainability and certification of the raw materi- als needed for its production. Additionally, we are  supporting climate research with our fourth proj- ect already and thus making an important contri- bution to researching the Earths atmosphere and  optimizing climate models. In the future, we will do everything we can to  ensure that the Lufthansa Group remains on  course with regard to ecological, economic and  social criteria. We will only be able to do so, how- ever, if we are able to achieve the necessary prof- its. It is also against this background that we have  adopted SCORE, our new corporate program to  ensure the long-term success of the Lufthansa  Group. It incorporates all business segments and  airlines as well as all administrative areas. They  will each do their part, so that the operating result  of our company will improve sustainably by at  least 1.5 billion euros by the end of 2014, com- pared with 2011. We need to take action now to  be able to invest in innovative products for our  customers, in our employees and in environmen- tal care in the future as well. Thank you for your interest in our company.   I wish you an interesting read and perhaps some  new insights from this issue of our Sustainability  Report.  Christoph Franz Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO  Deutsche Lufthansa AG Dear Readers, The past year again demanded a great deal of us.  All of the business segments within the Lufthansa  Group worked hard and held their own in global   competition. However, extraordinary events such  as those in Japan or the Arab region, the Euro- pean debt crisis, record-high fuel prices, the Ger- man aviation tax and the night-flight ban in Frank- furt burdened our business performance in 2011.  Although we fared better than many of our com- petitors, the current results make it a very chal- lenging task long-term to bear the necessary  substantial investments in aircraft and products in  the air and on the ground. By 2018 we will have  taken delivery of an additional 168 highly efficient  and quiet aircraft for our fleet, at a list price of  17 billion euros. The highlight in 2012 is the new  Boeing 747-8, which is 15 percent more fuel effi- cient and 30 percent quieter than its predeces- sor model.   As one of the largest companies in world aviation,  we have defined environmental care as a top-pri- ority corporate goal and continued our ambitious  fuel efficiency programs despite the current diffi- cult business climate. As a result, the specific fuel  consumption of the Lufthansa Group fleet could  be reduced again in 2011 – to 4.18 liters per pas- senger and 100 kilometers. To reach the climate  protection goals we have set ourselves, we will   4 a Balance 2012 Contents Editorial information  At a glance About this report The Lufthansa Group Facts and figures Business segment Passenger Airline Group Business segment Logistics / Business segment MRO Business segment IT Services / Business segment Catering  Corporate responsibility  Stakeholder dialogue  The Lufthansa Group fleet Prizes and awards Economic Sustainability Group strategy Management and corporate structures Corporate governance and compliance Corporate sourcing Infrastructure Social Responsibility Diversity Employment policy based on partnership Corporate training and continuing education Employee health and safety protection Facts and outlook Climate and Environmental Responsibility Kerosene and emissions Long-term trial of biofuel Fuel efficiency at the Lufthansa Group Air traffic management Emissions trading system Environmental management Energy and resource management Noise emissions Research projects Corporate Citizenship Social commitment Environmental sponsorship Cultural commitment and education Sports sponsorship Glossary 1 2 5 8 10 14 15 16 22 26 34 36 40 40 42 43 46 54 57 59 62 64  67 70 75 76 79 82 85 89 92 98 100 103 105  5 a Balance 2012 Emissions in absolute terms The calculation of emissions from flight opera- tions is based on the actual transport perfor- mance (i.e. actual load factors) and the actual  absolute quantity of kerosene consumed during  the year in review. In this context, each aircraft- engine combination that exists in the fleet is con- sidered separately, and the corresponding values  are calculated by means of computer programs  provided by the respective aircraft and engine  manufacturers. The annual average flight profile  of each subset in the fleet is then fed into these  programs. This allows us to determine emissions  in relation to flight altitude, distance flown, thrust  and load. This approach is necessary for nitro- gen oxides (NOX), carbon monoxide (CO) and  unburned hydrocarbons (UHCs) in particular.  Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions do not require  special calculation methods, as they are gener- ated in a fixed relationship to the quantity of kero- sene burned. The combustion of 1 tonne of kero- sene generates 3.15 tonnes of CO2. Specific consumption and emission values Calculating specific consumption and emissions  entails expressing absolute values in relationship  to transport performance. For example, the ratio  liters per 100 passenger kilometers (l/100 pkm)  is calculated on the basis of actual load factors,  distances actually flown and the kerosene actu- ally consumed. The distances used in the calcu- lations are great-circle distances. The understanding of corporate responsibility at  the Lufthansa Group is based on the following  five pillars:  Economic sustainability  Social responsibility  Climate and environmental responsibility  Corporate governance and compliance  Corporate citizenship The section Corporate governance and com- pliance is part of the chapter Economic  sustainability.  Scope of consolidation Reporting with regard to transport performance,  fuel consumption and emissions from flight oper- ations in the financial year 2011 is based on the  following scope of consolidation1:   Companies: Lufthansa German Airlines (includ- ing Lufthansa Italia (until October 2011) and  Lufthansa Regional with Lufthansa CityLine,  Air Dolomiti, Eurowings, Contact Air, Augsburg  Airways), Germanwings (since January 2011),  Lufthansa Cargo, Swiss International Air Lines  (SWISS) including Edelweiss Air (since January  2011) and Austrian Airlines. Excepted are third- party services, as Lufthansa has no influence  either on their performance or on the aircraft  they operate.   Types of service: all scheduled and charter  flights. Methodology of calculations Kerosene in absolute terms The calculation of kerosene consumption is  based on actual flight operations (i.e. using actual  load factors and flight routings), according to the  so-called gate-to-gate principle. This includes  all phases of a flight – from taxiing on the ground  to flying detours and in holding patterns in the air. The present Sustainability Report Balance informs stakeholders and the interested public about the  goals, activities and advances of the Lufthansa Group in the areas of business, social responsibility,   environment and corporate citizenship. The data presented in this report refer to the financial year 2011. About this report 1  Unless a different scope of consolidation is   expressly named.  6 a Balance 2012 Evaluation and validation of data and  information Environmental management system The data used in this report were collected by  means of Lufthansas environmental manage- ment system. This system also determines the  methods for data verification and its transmission  to the division Group Environmental Issues. The  basis for data collection is Lufthansas own Envi- ronmental Database. Accuracy The figures shown in tables and illustrations are  rounded. However, values indicating changes  from the previous year always refer to precise fig- ures. For this reason, it is possible that a specific  value may remain the same from one year to the  next, while a relative change is indicated. Comparability Due to changes in the portfolio over the past  years, the figures pertaining to personnel and  environment in this report are only to a limited  extent comparable with those reported for the  previous years. For example, Lufthansa sold   British Midland (bmi), which was fully consoli- dated in 2010, under a contract signed on 22  December 2011 (see page 13), for which reason  the Annual Report 2011 shows that company as  a discontinued operation. For the same reason,  the 2011 environmental and personnel indica- tors no longer include bmi. By contrast, German- wings and Edelweiss Air, which is part of SWISS,  were included in the calculation of the 2011 indi- cators for the first time. Furthermore, the perfor- mance and consumption data of Lufthansa Ita- lia are included in those of Lufthansa German  Airlines. The reason for this is that the Lufthansa  Italia brand, which was introduced in 2008, was  only continued until the end of the summer time- table (29 October 2011). There are also certain  differences in approach compared to the Annual  Report 2011 when calculating passenger numbers  and the related indicators (see explanations relat- ing to the table At a glance on page 2). Publication dates of this report Balance, the Sustainability Report of the Lufthansa  Group, is published once a year in a German  and an English edition. The German edition of  the previous years report was published on 19  May 2011; the English edition followed shortly  thereafter. Additional information on the Internet In addition to this report, Lufthansa also informs  readers via the Internet about the activities in the  area of sustainability within the Lufthansa Group. www.lufthansa.com/responsibility Disclaimer in respect of forward-looking  statements The data included in this report has been col- lected and processed with the utmost care.  Nevertheless, errors in transmission cannot be  ruled out entirely. Information published in this  report with regard to the future development of  the Lufthansa Group and its subsidiaries con- sists purely of forecasts and assessments and  not of definitive historical facts. Its purpose is  exclusively informational, identified by the use  of such cautionary terms as believe, expect,  forecast, intend, project, plan, estimate,  count on, or endeavor. These forward-looking  statements are based on all discernible informa- tion, facts and expectations available at the time.  They can, therefore, only claim validity up to the  date of their publication. Since forward-looking statements are by their  nature subject to uncertainties and impondera- ble risk factors – such as changes in underlying  economic conditions – and rest on assumptions  that may not or divergently occur, it is possible  that the Groups actual results and development  may differ materially from those implied by the  forecasts. Lufthansa makes a point of checking  and updating the information it publishes. It can- not, however, assume any obligation to adapt for- ward-looking statements to accommodate events  or developments that may occur at some later  date. Accordingly, it neither expressly nor conclu- sively accepts liability, nor does it give any guar- antee for the actuality, accuracy and complete- ness of this data and information.  a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 7 The Lufthansa Group Business segments Corporate responsibility Stakeholder dialogue Facts and figures Prizes and awards The Lufthansa Group fleet  10 In the current airline and service system, the  Passenger Airline Group represents the stra- tegic business segment and the central point  of the Groups portfolio. It comprises Lufthansa  German Airlines (including Germanwings and  the regional airlines), SWISS, Austrian Airlines,  as well as the equity shares in Brussels Airlines,  SunExpress and jetBlue Airways. The compa- nies of the Passenger Airline Group have a top  position in their respective segments and posi- tion themselves as quality carriers.  All companies in the Passenger Airline Group  pursue the goal of profitable growth. This creates  the conditions needed for investments in modern  fleets, financial stability in a volatile industry and  secure jobs with attractive perspectives for devel- opment. At the same time, the companies meet  their responsibility for the conservation of natural  resources by applying the principles of sustain- able development. The advancing harmonization  of products and processes allows passengers  seamless travel across the Groups network and  thus provides significant added value.  A total of more than 100.6 million passengers  chose to fly with the Groups airlines in 2011. In  terms of the number of passengers carried, this is  a new company record. In the summer timetable   2012, the airlines Lufthansa, SWISS, Austrian   Airlines and Brussels Airlines offer together flights  to 283 destinations in 105 countries on four  continents from their hubs in Frankfurt, Munich,  Dsseldorf, Zurich, Vienna and Brussels, and  mutually complement their own flight offers with  numerous codeshare flights. Business segment Passenger Airline Group 45 % 15.85 % jetBlue Hub:  New York JFK 50 % SunExpress Hubs:  Antalya, Istanbul,  Izmir Brussels Airlines Hub:  Brussels Germanwings 5 locations in Germany Austrian Airlines Hub: Vienna SWISS Hub: Zurich Lufthansa German Airlines Hubs: Frankfurt, Munich, Dsseldorf Equity investments The airlines of the Passenger Airline Group  and their hubs  a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 11 Lufthansa German Airlines In 2011, a total of 65.5 million passengers trav- eled with Lufthansa German Airlines. Thanks to  a modern and high-quality product, a unique  lounge concept and innovative services concern- ing all aspects of flying – such as the frequent  flyer program Miles & More, the Lufthansa Star  Chef Program and mobile services – Lufthansa  German Airlines and its full range of products  enjoy the highest recognition and renown world- wide. The key hubs of Lufthansa German Airlines  are in Frankfurt and Munich. These are comple- mented by a local hub in Dsseldorf and Europe- wide direct connections.  In March 2012, Lufthansa German Airlines pre- sented a new brand campaign. The fresh image  – in conjunction with the new claim Nonstop  you – is designed to strengthen Lufthansas  leading role in the business travel segment while  addressing leisure travelers more directly than  before. Marketing communications will give per- ceptible emphasis to the latter area in particular  to present the numerous product innovations and  improved offers in new and effective ways. In 2012, Lufthansa German Airlines will also begin  a new chapter in serving the German capital Ber- lin. The local fleet will grow from nine to 15 aircraft  and the route network will be expanded from cur- rently eight to 39 destinations.  www.lufthansa.com Lufthansa Regional comprises: Germanwings Germanwings is a fully-owned subsidiary of  Deutsche Lufthansa AG and one of the most suc- cessful airlines in the low-cost segment. Founded  in 2002, the company has its headquarters in  Cologne and its home base at Cologne/Bonn  Airport. Germanwings flies with modern Airbus  A319s from its five locations in Cologne/Bonn,  Stuttgart, Berlin, Hanover and Dortmund to more  than 90 destinations on the European continent,  in Israel and in North Africa. Germanwings and  Group parent Lufthansa are set to work together  even more closely in distribution as well: Since  20 January 2011, so-called interlining has been  possible between the two airlines. In this manner,  for example, an outbound flight on Lufthansa can  be combined with a return flight on Germanwings  in a reservation made by a travel agency or a  Lufthansa sales office.   www.germanwings.com In 2012, Lufthansa German Airlines significantly increases its connections to and from Berlin.  a Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 12 SWISS Swiss International Air Lines is part of Switzer- lands tradition in civil aviation and the coun- trys national airline. SWISS is a wholly-owned  Lufthansa Group company. The stock corpora- tions headquarters is in Basel. SWISS connects  Switzerland with the world from its hub in Zurich  and airports in Basel, Geneva and Lugano. The  airline has been a member of the Star Alliance  since April 2006. Customers fl ying with SWISS  enjoy personal care and the highest levels of  product and service quality. Its manageable size  allows SWISS to be close to its passengers and  to give them individual care. With its modern  products, SWISS positions itself in Economy as  well as in Business and First Class as a qual- ity airline and premium brand. The entire long- haul fl eet has been equipped with an advanced  type of Business Class since summer 2011. In the  leisure travel segment, the leisure airline Edel- weiss Air, which is consolidated within the SWISS  Group, complements the portfolio of offers. As  differentiation by means of an airlines brand is  gaining importance in the mass market of fl ight  services, SWISS has been applying a strength- ening of its brand portfolio since October 2011.  The aircraft tail with the Swiss cross as the new  logo, the claim Our sign is a promise and a new  advertising campaign embody the alignment with  Swiss quality and customer orientation.  www.swiss.com Austrian Airlines Austrian Airlines is a dynamic, quality-oriented  group that comprises the brands Austrian Airlines,  Lauda Air and Austrian arrows. It has been part of  the Lufthansa Group since 3 September 2009. In  Austria, its home market, Austrian Airlines repre- sents a signifi cant part of the national air transport  market. This network carrier, which takes the role  of market leader as the airline with the highest rev- enue, has made the growth area of central and  eastern Europe one of its areas of specialization.  With 44 destinations served, Austrian Airlines is  the market leader there as well. The second area  of emphasis is the Middle East. Austrian Airlines  offers one of the densest networks in both regions.  The central hub for all connections between east  and west is Vienna, the airlines home airport.  With more than 100 destinations, Austrian Airlines  operates the largest route network in Europe  offered from a single hub. The passengers of this  renowned airline benefi t from excellent service and  the proverbial Austrian hospitality.  www.austrian.com  SWISS uses a new advertising image to raise its brand profi le and to strengthen its positioning  as Switzerlands national airline. Star Alliance Lufthansa is a founding member of the Star Alliance – the worlds  leading airline network. Founded in 1997, the alliance currently con- sists of 25 airlines. Together, they offer more than 20,500 daily fl ights  to 1,293 destinations in 190 countries. www.star-alliance.com  a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 13 bmi Deutsche Lufthansa AG has completed the sale of British Midland Ltd. (bmi)  to International Airlines Group (IAG). The completion of the sale took place  after close of business on 19 April 2012. On 4 November 2011, Lufthansa  and IAG agreed in principle to the sale of bmi to IAG, prior to a legally bind- ing purchase agreement being signed by both parties on 22 December  2011. The validity of this contract was subject to regulatory approval by the  European Commission, which was received on 30 March 2012. This transac- tion gives bmi a perspective for the future while strengthening the Lufthansa  Groups future profitability. www.flybmi.com Brussels Airlines: With flights to 49 destinations in Europe and 21 cities in Africa,   the airline offers an outstanding network for journeys from, to and via Brussels. Brussels Airlines (equity share of 45 percent) Brussels Airlines is Belgiums largest airline. Since  June 2009, Lufthansa has held an equity share  of 45 percent in the companys parent, the hold- ing company SN Airholding with headquarters in  Brussels. Since 2011, Lufthansa has also held a  purchase option for the remaining 55 percent of  equity. Brussels Airlines joined the Star Alliance in  December 2009. The company evolved from SN  Brussels Airlines, which was founded in 2002 to  succeed the Belgian national airline Sabena. From  its hub in Brussels, the airline serves the most  important European capitals and regions. Another  area of emphasis in the route network of Brussels  Airlines is flights to Africa. www.brusselsairlines.com  SunExpress (equity share of 50 percent) A joint venture of Lufthansa and Turkish Airlines,  SunExpress has developed with pronounced  dynamism since its foundation in 1989. The air- line has its headquarters in Antalya on Turkeys  southern coast and currently offers more than  1,000 flights per week and is thus one of the mar- ket leaders in air traffic between Germany and  Turkey. It operates a fleet of 28 Boeing 737-800s  and employs more than 1,800 people. Besides  connections to its three hubs Antalya, Izmir and  Istanbul, SunExpress operates numerous non- stop flights from Germany to about a dozen Turk- ish cities and additionally offers numerous direct  connections within Turkey. In 2011, the airline  founded SunExpress Deutschland GmbH with  headquarters in the Rhine-Main area. This sub- sidiary operates flights to destinations on the Red  Sea and the Nile, in a move aimed to establish  SunExpress as a specialist for Egypt in addi- tion to Turkey. In 2011, the company set a new  record by carrying 7.7 million passengers. In  2012, it announced a new commitment in the  wet lease business. This new business segment  is designed primarily to counterbalance the low  season on European routes with the use of air- craft in the southern hemisphere.  www.sunexpress.com jetBlue Airways (equity share of 15.85 percent) jetBlue Airways is a U.S. passenger airline with  headquarters in New York. It was founded in  1998 and started operations in 2000. Lufthansa  holds a 15.85 percent equity share in jetBlue and  is thus the first European airline to have made a  significant investment in a U.S. airline. jetBlues  home base is at New Yorks John F. Kennedy  Airport (JFK). From there, as well as from Bos- ton, Fort Lauderdale, Los Angeles/Long Beach  and Orlando, jetBlue operates the majority of its  services to destinations in the United States, the  Caribbean and Latin America.  www.jetblue.com  a Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 14 Lufthansa Cargo AG is the provider of logistics ser- vices within the Lufthansa Group. It ranks among  the market leaders in the international air freight  business and offers a worldwide network, the  shortest transport times and high quality standards  in many product areas, some of which are highly  specialized. The emphasis of Lufthansa Cargo lies  in the airport-to-airport freight business. The logis- tics specialist operates its own fleet of 18 Boeing  MD-11F freighter aircraft and holds international  equity shares, such as those in the cargo airlines  AeroLogic (equity share of 50 percent) and Jade  Cargo International (equity share of 25 percent).  Lufthansa Cargo offers a comprehensive route net- Business segment Logistics / Lufthansa Cargo AG work with more than 300 destinations in about 100  countries, which is complemented by coopera- tions with other cargo airlines and air-freight-related  partner companies, including SWISS WorldCargo  and Air China Cargo. Customers benefit from the  highest quality standards, short transport times and  tailor-made logistics solutions. Lufthansa Cargos  product portfolio includes standard and express  freight, along with special freight as a significant  cornerstone. The latter includes the transport of live  animals, valuable cargo, mail, hazardous goods  and temperature-sensitive goods. The main trans- fer point is Frankfurt Airport; other important hubs  are Munich and Vienna. There are also close ties  to the Group companies SWISS and Brussels Air- lines. With its strategy Lufthansa Cargo 2020 the  freight airline has defined the cornerstones for prof- itable growth over the years ahead. The goals are  to continue to take part in the growing market of  air cargo, to simplify and optimize processes, and  to realize unit cost reductions. To implement the  planned growth, Lufthansa Cargo ordered five new  Boeing 777 freighters in 2011, for delivery between  2013 and 2015. Lufthansa Cargo has its headquar- ters in Frankfurt. www.lufthansa-cargo.com Lufthansa Technik AG is the worlds leading pro- vider of technical aircraft services. The empha- sis is on the manufacturer-independent mainte- nance and overhaul of civil aircraft and the repair  of engines, electrical equipment and compo- nents (Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul, MRO).  Worldwide, Lufthansa Technik attends to about  770 customers, which include mostly airlines and  operators of VIP jets but also aircraft leasing com- panies. Within the Lufthansa Group, Lufthansa  Technik is responsible for the safety, reliability  and value retention of the fleet. Lufthansa Tech- nik comprises six product divisions: maintenance,  Business segment MRO / Lufthansa Technik AG aircraft overhauls, engines, components, land- ing gear and VIP aircraft services. Its MRO net- work unites 32 technical maintenance operations  worldwide. The company has direct and indirect  participations in 56 corporations. Hamburg is the  most important location for Lufthansa Techniks  maintenance operations, bundling aircraft over- haul services, cabin completion for VIP aircraft,  engine and component maintenance, the logis- tics center, and the design and production facility.  The largest maintenance stations are in Frank- furt and Munich; additional stations are located  at all larger German airports and about 50 other  locations worldwide. The MRO service provider is  currently expanding its market presence in Ger- many by building an aircraft maintenance hangar  at the new Berlin Brandenburg International Air- port. In Asia, Lufthansa Technik has maintenance  operations in four countries; among these are  Lufthansa Technik Philippines, Lufthansa Technik  Shenzhen, Lufthansa Technik Services India and  Ameco Beijing. The headquarters of Lufthansa  Technik AG is in Hamburg. www.lufthansa-technik.com  a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 15 Business segment IT Services / Lufthansa Systems AG Lufthansa Systems offers consulting and IT ser- vices for selected industries and has a world- wide leadership role in the aviation industry. With  its comprehensive portfolio, Lufthansa Systems  covers the entire spectrum of IT services, ranging  from consulting to the development and imple- mentation of tailor-made industry solutions and  the operation of these innovative systems in its  own data centers. In their work, the experts of  Lufthansa Systems combine many years of proj- ect experience with comprehensive technologi- cal know-how, profound industry knowledge and  proven expertise in analyzing complex business  processes. Given the high level of complexity  of IT projects, project management has a key  role in keeping implementations on schedule  and within budget. As a certified SAP partner,  Lufthansa Systems also covers the entire ser- vice range for SAP systems, from design and  adaptation to implementation, consolidation and  maintenance. The products and services pro- vided by Lufthansa Systems allow companies to  increase their efficiency, reduce their costs and  raise their revenues over the long term. World- wide, more than 200 airlines – as well as compa- nies in such industries as transport and logis- tics, manufacturing, media and publishing,  energy and health care – rely on the exper- tise of Lufthansa Systems. The company has  its headquarters in Kelsterbach near Frankfurt.  In addition, Lufthansa Systems also maintains  branch offices in Germany as well as at locations  in 16 countries.  www.LHsystems.com  Business segment Catering / LSG Sky Chefs LSG Sky Chefs is the worlds largest provider of  airline catering and the management of all pro- cesses related to in-flight service. The Group  comprises 148 companies at 200 locations in 52  countries. In 2011, this wholly-owned Lufthansa  subsidiary produced 490 million in-flight meals  for more than 300 airlines worldwide – includ- ing nearly all international as well as numerous  national and regional carriers, network carriers,  charter companies and low-cost airlines. The  Groups parent company, LSG Lufthansa Service  Holding AG, has its headquarters in Neu-Isen- burg near Frankfurt. In the area of airline cater- ing, LSG Sky Chefs offers a complete range from  premium meals produced to order all the way to  cost-efficient snacks. Based on its far-reaching  experience, the Group has developed tried-and- tested methods which ensure that customers  always receive first-rate quality. Further perfor- mance parameters are culinary excellence and  innovation, authentic regional cuisines from the  airlines international network, and an innovative  and appealing menu design. Beyond that, the  company offers a broad range of in-flight prod- ucts and services at the highest level of quality  and reliability. Additionally, the Group has begun  to open up associated markets such as railway  and school catering as well as catering in the  health care and retail sectors. www.lsgskychefs.com  a Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 16 Five dimensions of corporate responsibility To grasp corporate responsibility in all its dimen- sions and to make it tangible, Lufthansa devel- oped a model that comprises the following topic  areas: economic sustainability, social responsi- bility, climate and environmental responsibility,  corporate governance and compliance, and cor- porate citizenship (see illustration at right). In this  context, sustainable business practices represent  a fundamental prerequisite for responsible action.  This does not mean, however, that the other four  dimensions of entrepreneurial responsibility can  be regarded as secondary, a point emphasized  by Sadiq Gillani, Senior Vice President Group  Strategy at Deutsche Lufthansa AG (see interview  on page 19). These areas of activity also have  significant influence on economic sustainability  and thus on the Lufthansa Groups future viability. Corporate Responsibility Council   sets the framework In his role as Senior Vice President Group  Strategy, Sadiq Gillani also manages the inter- disciplinary and interdepartmental Corporate  Responsibility Council (CRC). Situated at the  upper management level, this committee pro- vides the fundamental framework for steering  and controlling the processes related to sus- tainability at the Lufthansa Group. Apart from  the Senior Vice President Group Strategy, the  CRCs members include the heads of the Group  departments in charge of political issues, envi- ronmental issues, human resources, legal  issues, communications, investor relations and  controlling. In addition, the CRC consults with  the Group department Corporate Sourcing to  ensure that the topic of sustainability is suffi- ciently taken into account throughout the sup- ply chains as well. The activities and projects  decided by the CRC are subsequently imple- mented by the specialized departments.  Communication with internal and external audi- ences has an important function in this con- text. Since 1994, Balance has informed all of  the Groups stakeholder groups in an open and  constructive manner about issues concerning  corporate responsibility. Launched 18 years ago  as a pure environmental report, Balance has  long since covered all important aspects of sus- tainability with regard to the Groups companies  and airlines. Highlights 2012 For an overview of the successful activities in  the area of corporate responsibility within the  Lufthansa Group during the reporting year,  please see pages 20 and 21. The scope encom- passes such topics as the starting signal for the  new climate research project IAGOS, the long- term testing of biofuel, the commitment to noise  reduction and aid flights by Lufthansa Cargo. Corporate responsibility  Sustainability and responsibility  Corporate responsibility, that is to say sustainable and responsible entrepreneurial practice, has been  firmly anchored in the Groups corporate culture and in its corporate strategy for many years. It is an  important element in securing the Groups viability in the future. The Lufthansa Group not only pays  attention to applying sustainable business practices and growing by creating added value, but also  places great emphasis on continuously improving climate and environmental care, treating employees  responsibly and fairly, and carrying out its commitment to the good of society. Attractive products and offers are, of  course, the fundamental condition for  success in the market. But responsible  business practices within the overall  societal context and a dialogue about  this with different stakeholder groups  are just as indispensable. The Corpo- rate Responsibility Council gives the  Group a clear orientation in this area. Astrid Messmer Rodriguez  Director Segment Strategy and coordinator of the Cor- porate Responsibility Council, Deutsche Lufthansa AG  a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 17 The fi ve dimensions of corporate responsibility  at the Lufthansa Group Social responsibility The Lufthansa Group respects human rights and  applies strict moral standards to its own actions. Our  corporate culture is characterized by the fair treatment  of and diversity among staff. The health and safety of  our employees enjoy the highest priority. Broad offers for  continuing education and the possibility to combine pro- fessional and private lives are integral elements of our  social responsibility.   Climate and environmental responsibility The Lufthansa Group is fully aware of its responsi- bility for the climate and the environment. We reduce  specifi c CO2 emissions, implement environmental man- agement systems and expand these measures further.  Moreover, we continuously increase resource and energy  effi ciency and actively participate in noise and climate  research projects. Our environmental and climate protec- tion goals are guided by the four-pillar strategy for air  transport. Economic sustainability The Lufthansa Group aims at the long- term increase of the companys value by  means of sustainable business practices. The  focus of our attention is on our customers and their  mobility needs. In our endeavors to improve and  evolve continuously, we count on long-term value  creation, a circumspect management of opportu- nities and risks, a consistent management of  our supply chains and a constructive dia- logue with our stakeholder groups.    Corporate governance and compliance The Lufthansa Group regards effective, responsible cor- porate governance and control, and careful adherence to  laws and regulations as self-evident – and it expects the  same of its suppliers. Openness and clarity in commu- nications create the conditions for maintaining and  expanding the trust of investors, employees and  the public at large. Corporate citizenship The Lufthansa Group assumes its corporate citizenship  in many ways and supports numerous projects in areas  of social concerns, culture, education, environmen- tal sponsorship and sports. In addition, the Groups  employees are committed to social concerns  through volunteer work during their free time –  among other things for the HelpAlliance or  Cargo Human Care.  a Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 18 Award for responsible corporate management  Independently of these corporate activities, a num- ber of external experts and agencies evaluated  the practices of the Lufthansa Group again in 2011  under the aspect of responsible conduct. As a  result, the aviation company once more achieved  representation in several sustainability indexes,  such as FTSE4Good, ASPI (Advanced Sustainable  Performance Indices) and ESI (Ethibel Sustainabil- ity Index). In the corporate rating by the agency  oekom in 2011, Lufthansa achieved Prime Sta- tus, which is awarded to companies with particu- larly sustainable and responsible practices. The  Group also managed to achieve a significantly  better rating in the Carbon Disclosure Project  (CDP) compared with its result the year before.  In contrast, Lufthansa was not able to reestab- lish membership in the Dow Jones Sustainability  Index (DJSI) under the ever-stricter conditions. The  analysts identified further optimization potentials  in the area of operational eco-efficiency, which  focuses primarily on emissions and the consump- tion of fuel, energy and water. However, the results  in the areas of economic efficiency, risk manage- ment and crisis management were significantly  improved. Lufthansas management treats the  results of such surveys and ratings conscientiously  and deducts from them the need for appropriate  action within the company. Beyond this, Lufthansa  is committed to the Principles of the UN Global  Compact and supports its activities. Principles of the UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact is a worldwide initiative that was set up by the former  UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan in 2000. The compact between companies  and the United Nations has the goal of making globalization socially and envi- ronmentally compatible, and it obliges the participating companies to adhere to  social and ecological minimum standards, to respect human rights and to fight  against corruption. Deutsche Lufthansa AG has been a member since 2002. Human rights   Businesses should support and respect the protection of international  human rights within their sphere of influence and   make sure their own corporations are not indirectly linked to human rights  abuses.   Labor   Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective   recognition of the right to collective bargaining;   eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor;   effectively abolish child labor; and   eliminate any discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment   Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental  challenges;   undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and   encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly  technologies. Anti-corruption   Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion  and bribery. www.unglobalcompact.org  a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 19 Mr. Gillani, what is the importance of corporate  responsibility at the Lufthansa Group? For us, corporate responsibility is an important criterion  for securing the Lufthansa Groups future viability in an  extremely competitive market environment. We are com- mitted to sustainable development and assume our eco- logical, civic and social responsibilities. We also document  this claim in our Mission Statement.   Could you give some concrete examples? Our future-oriented approach to value-oriented corporate  management lets us keep a firm eye on economic sustain- ability. This puts us in a position to assume climate and  environmental responsibility in a proactive manner. For  example, we continued our investments in a modern, more  efficient and quieter fleet in 2011 as well. Here, economy  and ecology go hand in hand. But new, eco-efficient air- craft cost money. We can afford them only thanks to our  financial foundations, which are stable over the long term.  In addition, our strong commitment to biokerosene illus- trates impressively that we do our utmost to accelerate the  development of sustainably produced alternative fuel for  aviation. In which areas does the company need to catch up? We need to react even more quickly and flexibly to the  challenges of a constantly changing competitive environ- ment and to do everything we can to secure the Lufthansa  Groups economic sustainability in the future as well. The  corporate program SCORE supports us in this quest by  increasing our competitiveness. Because only with finan- cial strength can the Lufthansa Group invest and grow in a  sustainable manner. Is SCORE limited to increasing economic sustaina- bility? Are the other pillars of corporate responsibility  secondary? Economic sustainability is an integral part of our strat- egy and a basic requirement for responsible corporate  management, which also includes social and ecologi- cal responsibility. So in the final analysis, SCORE helps  to finance corporate responsibility as a whole. SCORE  doesnt compete with that. Im convinced that our highly  qualified and motivated employees will master this chal- lenge too. The employees importance in reaching our  goal itself illustrates that we cannot treat the other dimen- sions of corporate responsibility as secondary, as in the  end they all also have an influence on the economic sus- tainability and thus on the future viability of the Lufthansa  Group. Interview with Sadiq Gillani Senior Vice President Group Strategy at Deutsche Lufthansa AG  20 Corporate responsibility – Highlights 3 January 2011 Personnel reinforcement in the  air and on the ground Lufthansa announces it will hire 4,000  new employees in the operational areas  in Germany. 24 February 2011 Commitment to less noise Lufthansa starts modifying the engines  of the Boeing 737 fleet stationed in  Frankfurt with new acoustic panels.  See page 86 1 March 2011 Cargo Climate Care Conference Lufthansa Cargo organizes the second Cargo Cli- mate Care Conference in Frankfurt and presents the  eponymous environmental award. 23 March 2011 Lufthansa Cargo aid flight to Japan After the devastating earthquake in Japan,   Lufthansa Cargo transports 70 tonnes of aid   supplies to Tokyo free of charge. See page 92 19 April 2011 Austrian Airlines concludes refitting   its Boeing 767 fleet with winglets The new winglets help the airline save fuel   and thus avoid emissions. 13 May 2011 27th Lufthansa Festival of   Baroque Music in London The festival steeped in tradition delighted   the public and media alike with 12 concerts.   See page 100 19 May 2011 Balance 2011 is published Christoph Franz, Chairman of the Executive  Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG,  presents the Sustainability Report of the   Lufthansa Group at a press conference. 7 July 2011 Starting signal given for new climate  research project IAGOS Lufthansa launches another research   project to observe the Earths atmosphere  long-term in cooperation with Research  Center Jlich. See page 89 19 May 2011 New service trolleys reduce fuel  consumption Lufthansa announces the replacement of  its onboard trolleys with lighter model  Quantum Light Weight Trolley by 2014. 15 July 2011 Start of the long-term trial of  biofuel For the first time, Lufthansa uses biofuel  on daily flights between Hamburg and  Frankfurt. See page 67 11 July 2011 New lightweight containers Lufthansa and Lufthansa Cargo will intro- duce loading containers made from light- weight composite materials by 2015,  which saves fuel and avoids emissions.  See page 73 17 October 2011 More women in management positions The Lufthansa Group sets itself the goal of  increasing the share of women in management  positions by 30 percent by 2020.  See page 46 21 to 23 November 2011 Finale of university competition   Lufthansa Case Challenge Lufthansa and EBS Business School organize an   international competition on the subject of sustain- ability. See page 25 21 November 2011 SWISS WorldCargo counts on  lightweight containers The freight division of SWISS will replace its aluminum  containers with a more lightweight version by 2015. 6 October 2011 First expert round for humanitarian  logistics in Frankfurt Lufthansa Cargo organizes expert round to  improve understanding of the needs of inter- national aid organizations. See page 92 22 November 2011  Presentation of the UNEP/CMS Thesis  Award endowed by Lufthansa For the third time, this thesis award, which  offers prize money of 10,000 euros, was given  to a young scientist. See page 99  21 17 August 2011 Lufthansa Cargo aid flight to  East Africa Lufthansa Cargo carries 90 tonnes of  aid supplies to Nairobi, Kenya.  See page 92 29 August 2011 Start of the pilot project for inductive  recharging of an electric car at Frankfurt  Airport Lufthansa Technik operates an electric car at  Frankfurt Airport to test e-mobility and the contact- free recharging technology. See page 82 1 September 2011 Small change – Its a big help: Brussels Airlines  now also collects donations for the HelpAlliance On its long-haul flights, Brussels Airlines now also partici- pates in collecting remaining amounts of foreign currency   for the employees aid organization HelpAlliance. 1 September 2011 Lufthansa Group receives award for its  commitment to sustainability Lufthansa receives the Cond Nast Traveler World  Savers Award 2011 in the category Doing it all. 16 September 2011 Lufthansa receives award for its  commitment to biofuel In the framework of the Clean Tech Media  Award 2011, Lufthansa receives a special  prize for its biofuel project burnFAIR.   See page 68 25 September 2011 Jubilee sightseeing flights for   a good cause To celebrate Hamburg Airports 100th anniver- sary, Lufthansa offers two sightseeing flights  with an Airbus A380 and donates the pro- ceeds of 50,000 euros to two charitable orga- nizations. See page 95 December 2011 Test run with electric taxiing power for  aircraft on the ground (eTaxi) For the first time, Lufthansa Technik installs elec- tric motors on the main landing gear of a civil air- craft to test the suitability of this environmentally  friendly propulsion system. See page 82 December 2011 Lufthansa Cargo receives recertification  for its environmental management system The environmental management system of Lufthansa  Cargo is recertified according to ISO 14001 at all  German stations. See page 80 December 2011 LZ Catering receives koprofit  certificate LZ Catering has taken part in the koprofit  project in Hamburg. See page 81 12 January 2012 First scheduled transatlantic flight  with biofuel to the United States For the first time, a Lufthansa Boeing 747-400  with about 40 tonnes of a biofuel mix in its  tanks flies from Frankfurt to Washington D.C. 2 February 2012 Lufthansa extends partnership  with Deutsche Sporthilfe   (German Sports Aid) Lufthansa remains a National Sponsor  of Deutsche Sporthilfe for the next four  years. See page 103 6 February 2012 Presentation of the project   Management Landscape 2020  (FK 2020) FK 2020 is the foundation on which   the Lufthansa Group intends to   increase diversity at its higher  management levels. See page 46  a Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 22  Capital market  Investors  Shareholders  Analysts  Rating agencies  Governments  Legislators  Politicians  Authorities  Employees  Employee representatives  Customers   LOHAS (Lifestyle  of Health and  Sustainability)  Neighbors  Local communities   Publicity  Social networks   Non-governmental  organizations (NGOs)   Organizations   Consortia   Science  Research  Education  Suppliers  Contractual partners The company seeks an active exchange with its  stakeholders and incorporates their experiences,  wishes and expectations in its strategic actions.   A selection of examples from 2011: Passengers / customers International passenger surveys Lufthansa has been measuring passenger satis- faction continuously since 2001. These surveys  show which performance elements generate the  highest degree of satisfaction among passen- gers. They also allow insights into how passen- ger needs could be met even better in the future.  The satisfaction values recorded are also used to  calculate the so-called Customer Profile Index. It  documents how the passengers, or specific pas- senger segments, perceive quality. In addition, Lufthansa cooperates with renowned  market research institutes to conduct regular  studies at the international level concerning the  companys brand positioning. In 2011, the com- pany also conducted an online survey among  Lufthansa Miles & More customers concerning  the airlines long-term testing of biofuel (see On  track for the air transport of the future on page  67). Lufthansa Systems Airline Forum Think easy was the motto for the Airline Forum  attended by 350 representatives of about 90  airlines from 13 to 15 September 2011 at the  Lufthansa Training & Conference Center in  Seeheim. The global network and innovation  platform of Lufthansa Systems offered an over- view of current trends and novelties in the area  of information technology for airlines. The focus  of the numerous lectures, product presentations  and workshops was on modern IT solutions that  allow companies to simplify their processes and  reduce their costs. Lufthansa Technik: 14th Customer Commu- nity Conference and Customer Satisfaction  Survey All topics focused on Innovations and Customer  Care at Lufthansa Techniks 14th Customer   Community Conference in Hamburg. The event  was attended in 2011 by about 80 customer rep- resentatives from around the world. Eight speak- ers presented innovations within the company –  such as the successful long-term testing of bio- fuel at Lufthansa or the challenges and solutions  regarding technical support for the latest-genera- tion aircraft. Furthermore, Lufthansa Technik surveyed 300  representatives of 160 airlines concerning their  satisfaction with the companys services. The  customer satisfaction survey conducted in 2011  awarded the maintenance specialist top marks  for its broad product portfolio, its worldwide net- work and the professional competence of its  employees. As areas for improvement, the par- ticipating customers identified among others the  flexibility of business processes. International innovation competition  at Lufthansa Cargo  Lufthansa Cargo is convinced that investments  in environmental innovations pay off. For this rea- son, the logistics service provider included the  category Green Solutions in its first-ever inter- national innovation competition Open Innovation  Stakeholder dialogue Open exchange creates trust Entrepreneurial activities are subject to social acceptance. This is also true for the Lufthansa Group,  whose business activities touch upon the interests of many stakeholder groups – such as customers  and employees, investors, analysts, lawmakers, neighbors and municipalities as well as researchers  and educators.    LH Group  a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 23 The online portal www.lufthansa.com/investor-relations offers access to numerous  presentations, performance indicators and fi nancial publications of the Lufthansa Group. Challenge and asked its stakeholders to submit  appropriate ideas (see Environmental manage- ment on page 80). In addition, Lufthansa Cargo  organized its second Cargo Climate Care Con- ference on 1 March 2011 in Frankfurt to discuss  innovative solutions for the long-term improve- ment of the logistics industrys climate balance  sheet. More than 200 representatives from the  logistics and aviation industries participated in  the fully-booked event (see Balance 2011 on  page 25).  Logistics specialist opens new visitor center  in Frankfurt The logistics service provider also opened a  new visitor center at Gateway 25 of Frankfurt  Airport. The Lufthansa Cargo Visitor Center fea- tures a high-quality, modern atmosphere and  provides space for up to 50 people. Information  graphs and display cases offer insights into the  world of air freight as well as into the companys  history and current activities. On 18 May 2011,  Karl Ulrich Garnadt, Chairman of the Executive  Board and CEO of Lufthansa Cargo, offi cially  inaugurated the building, which will also be  used for internal events. Lufthansa Visitors Service organizes guided  theme tours At the locations in Frankfurt and Hamburg, the  Lufthansa Visitors Service offers the opportunity  to obtain detailed information about the Lufthansa  Group and to engage in an in-depth dialogue.  The offer specifi cally addresses national and  international top customers from different indus- tries as well as university graduates, people liv- ing near airports and representatives of asso- ciations and research institutions. In 2011, about  7,800 interested visitors took advantage of this  dialogue offer in Frankfurt by taking part in tours  on a range of subjects. One of the main attrac- tions – apart from sustainability topics – was the  Airbus A380. The aircraft naming ceremonies  in Vienna and Zurich drew lively demand from  visitors for the chance to get acquainted with  the new Lufthansa fl agship under the guidance  of an expert team.  While 650 guided tours took place in Frankfurt,  there were 633 tours with some 13,000 visitors in  Hamburg. Moreover, Lufthansa organized a com- petition among its top customers in early 2012  to help fi nd the Visitors Service a new name that  would be more fi tting for the activities it offers.  The fi nal winner was Discover Lufthansa. It will  be used in all of the institutions publications as  well as in its e-mail address. Visitors services  are also offered by the Group airlines SWISS and  Austrian Airlines at their respective hubs in Zurich  and Vienna.  Investors / analysts Members of Lufthansas Executive Board  answer investors questions In 2011, the members of Lufthansas Executive  Board again responded directly to questions  from investors and analysts. The platform for this  direct form of exchange with management is the  annual Investor Day, which most recently took  place on 21 September 2011 in Zurich. The event  offers comprehensive background information on  topics such as the Groups strategic orientation  and the development of individual business seg- ments. In addition, investors gained insights into  the passenger business, the interplay of hubs as  well as the positioning and development of the  cargo business. With the goal of informing institutional investors in  a quick, detailed and factual manner beyond the  quarterly conferences, the Executive Board and  Investor Relations team held 39 road shows and  11 investor conferences in 2011. These events  were complemented by more than 300 one-on- one and group meetings. In addition to its Annual  Report and three Interim Reports, the Group  publishes Investor Info, which provides details  about the monthly traffi c fi gures of the fl ying com- panies and other news from the Lufthansa Group.  Forums for private investors and the publication  Shareholder information complete the dialogue  offers for the capital markets.  a Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 24 Employees Dialogue events and decentralized Town  Meetings The Lufthansa Group regularly organizes dia- logue events to find out more about the expecta- tions, wishes and needs of its employees, espe- cially those with customer contact. Decentralized  Town Meetings at many locations are the plat- form for direct exchanges between members of  the Executive Board and employees. For exam- ple, Christoph Franz, Chairman of the Executive  Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, took  advantage of this framework on 28 November  2011 to present the Lufthansa Groups new strat- egy to employees of SWISS and Austrian Airlines.  Product & Marketing Village 2011 for  employees of Lufthansa German Airlines  In their role as active product designers and  brand ambassadors, Lufthansa employees have  a significant influence on the way in which pas- sengers experience their journeys with Lufthansa  German Airlines. As part of the endeavors to  turn passengers into fans, the two-day Prod- uct & Marketing Village 2011 took place dur- ing the reporting year. This event gave about  450 employees from the product and market- ing areas an opportunity to capture the varied  world of Lufthansa products and services with all  their senses. Numerous interactive topic stands  made it possible to experience products such as  the world of Lufthansa Lounges or the new First  Class seats aboard the Boeing 747-400.  Moreover, the company management uses vari- ous internal print and online media to communi- cate with the Groups employees. These include  not only the staff newspaper Lufthanseat but  also the magazine Lufthansa Passage for  ground, cabin and cockpit personnel as well as  the company intranet with its platform eTeaming.  Employee surveys produce important   descriptions of moods For many years, Lufthansa has used employee  surveys as an instrument to assess staff members  satisfaction with their tasks, work environment,  continuing education offers, and communication  with supervisors and company management. In  2011, the Employee Feedback Management (EFM)  took place for the seventh time – and was con- cluded with record participation. Beyond that, the  initiative Great Place to Work gave employees  of Lufthansa Technik, Lufthansa Technik Logistik,  Lufthansa Technik Maintenance International and  Lufthansa LEOS an opportunity to give upper-level  managers feedback concerning their leadership  qualities (see info box on page 56). Government, lawmakers,  politics, public  administrations Lufthansa maintains an intensive and continuous  dialogue with representatives of Germanys fed- eral and state governments. On the international  level as well, the Group takes a stand on legal  and regulatory guidelines, and makes its prac- tice-based knowledge available. Neighbors / municipalities Promoting trust and creating understanding – that is  the focal point for the dialogue between Lufthansa  and mayors and administrations of municipali- ties surrounding airports. Key topics in this con- text are the economic perspectives offered by the  aviation company, for example at the Frankfurt  location, as well as related concerns about noise  protection and the quality of life. Pursuing the  goal of achieving a long-term balance of inter- ests, the Group maintains a continuous dialogue  with mayors and representatives of neighboring  municipalities at other large company locations  as well. Numerous SWISS employees took part in the Town Meeting held on 28 November 2011 in Zurich.  a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 25 Rally Ja zu FRA! on Rmerberg in Frankfurt It is important for Lufthansa to help make the  debate about the expansion of Frankfurt Airport  (FRA) as balanced as possible. To promote a fac- tual and differentiated debate about the pros and  cons of the expansion of Lufthansas home hub,  the company, together with Fraport and Condor,  created the initiative Ja zu FRA! (Yes to FRA!)  at the beginning of 2012 and invited support ers to  join a rally on Frankfurts Rmerberg on 1 March.  As one of the worlds leading passenger and  cargo hubs, Frankfurt Airport currently offers jobs  for about 71,000 people at about 500 companies  (see page 43).  Research / education As a contribution to social progress, Lufthansa  has taken on an active role in numerous research  projects. The airline cooperates closely with  renowned scientifi c institutions and research insti- tutes; their joint activities focus on issues related  to climate protection, the reduction of noise and  pollutant emissions, and the testing of alterna- tive fuels. Additionally, the company maintains an  ongoing dialogue with other airlines. Moreover,  the starting signal for the new climate research  project IAGOS was given in July 2011. The goal of  the long-term observation campaign by Lufthansa  and Research Center Jlich is to examine the Earths  atmosphere for atmospheric trace substances,  aerosols and cloud particles with instruments car- ried aboard a Lufthansa Airbus A340-300 on  its worldwide fl ights (see Under development:  Worldwide measuring infrastructure for climate  research on page 89). In 2011, Lufthansa also  successfully concluded nearly six months of test- ing the use of biofuel in regular fl ight operations  (Long-term trial of biofuel – On track for the air  transport of the future on page 67). Furthermore,  the Group and its partners launched the new  noise project MODAL. It will make a signifi cant  contribution to the standardization process for the  planned German standard DIN 45689 Determi- nation of aircraft noise exposure at airports (see  Great commitment to less noise on page 85). International competition  Lufthansa Case Challenge The cooperation with universi- ties is an important element in  the stakeholder dialogue of the  Lufthansa Group. In 2011, for  example, the Group – in coopera- tion with the Aviation Management  Institute at the EBS European  Business School – organized the  second edition of the Lufthansa  Case Challenge. A total of 189  teams from more than 25 coun- tries participated in this academic  competition for undergraduate and  graduate students. The contest,  which focused this time on the topic of sustainability, aims at  gaining impulses from university students for issues encountered in  daily practice. The six teams presenting the most innovative con- cepts made it to the fi nals and had the opportunity to present their  solutions to a jury of Lufthansa top managers and EBS experts.  Application  Deadline:  May 31st, 2011  Win free flights and  other tremendous  aviation-related prices*  Get in touch with  Lufthansa experts  Gain practical  experience and work  in teams  Present your ideas to  Lufthansas top  management 2nd Lufthansa  Case Challenge Sustainability November 21-23 www.LHcasechallenge.com 2011 * Terms and conditions: www.LHcasechallenge.com On 1 March 2012, Christoph Franz, Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO of  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (2nd from left), and the chairmen of the executive boards of Condor,  Lufthansa Cargo and Fraport explained in depth the importance of Frankfurt Airport for the  Rhine-Main region and beyond that for the entire German economy.  a Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 26 On 31 December 2011, the Lufthansa Group fleet  comprised a total of 636 aircraft. This includes  the aircraft of Lufthansa German Airlines, SWISS,  Austrian Airlines, the regional partners Lufthansa  CityLine, Air Dolomiti, Eurowings as well as   Germanwings and Lufthansa Cargo. By 2018,   the Group will take delivery of 168 new aircraft  with an order value of about 17 billion euros  (at list prices). These new aircraft represent an  investment in the future for us. Not only do we  modernize and expand our Group fleet, but we  also align the fleet optimally with future demand  levels, explains Nico Buchholz, Executive Vice  President Group Fleet Management at Deutsche  Lufthansa AG.  The noise emissions of the aircraft on order are  significantly below those of comparable prede- cessor models. In this manner, the Airbus A380,  the Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental, the CSeries  by Bombardier and the Airbus A320neo reduce  noise levels or noise footprints by double-digit  percentage values. With this addition of the most  advanced aircraft, the Lufthansa Group can grow  further and at the same time fly in a more eco- nomical and environmentally friendly manner.  Significant investment volumes based on the lat- est technological advances allow the Group a  sustainable, targeted planning. The fleet modern- ization at a glance: Lufthansa German Airlines Commissioning the Boeing 747-8  Lufthansa German Airlines is set to achieve fur- ther successes in the area of fuel efficiency by  operating the new Boeing 747-8 Intercontinen- tal. At the same time, this is a highly economic  aircraft in terms of capacity, range and operating  costs. Lufthansa has placed orders for 20 Boeing  747-8s, which will be delivered between spring  2012 and mid-2015 and will complement the Group  fleet perfectly between the Airbus A340-600 and  the Airbus A380. In Lufthansas configuration, it  will offer seats for 362 passengers. Moreover, as  a member of the 747 family, it can be easily inte- grated into the existing infrastructure at more than  200 airports around the world. The Boeing 747-8 reaches new dimensions par- ticularly with regard to sustainability aspects and  environmental efficiency. Among other features,  the newly designed wings with an advanced  profile and curved wingtips, the so-called raked  wingtips, create aerodynamic advantages. Like- wise newly developed, the General Electric GEnx- 2B67 engines consume less fuel, emit lower  levels of pollutants and allow for reduced noise  emissions. The Boeing 747-8 is about 15 per- cent more fuel-efficient than the 747-400 and  produces correspondingly lower levels of emis- sions. In addition, its noise footprint is 30 percent  smaller than that of its predecessor. The 747-8  lies 15.6 decibels below the strict Chapter-4 noise  limits of the International Civil Aviation Organiza- tion (ICAO), which have applied to new aircraft  since 2006. With a total length of 76.3 meters, the Boeing  747-8 is not only the worlds longest passenger  aircraft but also one of the most modern. In con- structing the aircraft, the manufacturer has used  new aluminum alloys and compound materials  that are more lightweight and durable than pre- viously used materials. Furthermore, there are  numerous innovations aboard the aircraft, some  of which come from the cabin of the 787 Dream- The Lufthansa Group fleet The Lufthansa Group counts on a modern and efficient fleet. This requires continuous investments both in  optimizing the existing fleet and in purchasing new aircraft. When acquiring new aircraft, the Group applies  stringent criteria: Aside from passenger comfort, low consumption and noise values are especially important  factors.  Planning for sustainability: 168 new aircraft by 2018 These new aircraft represent an in- vestment in the future for us. Not  only do we modernize and expand  our Group fleet, but we also align the  fleet optimally with future demand  levels. Nico Buchholz Executive Vice President Group Fleet Management  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 27 liner. With its upward curve, the cabins architec- ture gives passengers a more pleasant feeling  of roominess, more comfort and more space for  carry-on luggage. Lufthansa is also setting high  standards again with its new Business Class,  which will make its debut aboard the Boeing 747-8.  www.lufthansa.com/747 37 aircraft ordered in 2011 In 2011, the Group ordered a total of 37 air- craft for Lufthansa German Airlines: 25 Airbus  A320neos and five Airbus A321neos in March;  and two Airbus A380s, one Airbus A330-300 and  four Airbus A320s in September. Until new air- craft technologies become more reliably avail- able, this moderate expansion of the Lufthansa  fleet serves above all to secure the short-term  requirements for modernizing and consolidat- ing the European fleet. It is our objective always  to operate a modern fleet when it comes to fuel  efficiency, operating costs, noise and emissions,  explains Nico Buchholz. At the same time, our  supplementary order for the Airbus A380 and  A330 secures our mid-term development on  long-haul routes. In connection with the aircraft  already on order, which will be integrated into the  fleet over the years ahead, we now have even  more options for reacting in a targeted and flex- ible manner to swings in demand or changes  in the markets. In the course of 2011, Lufthansa  German Airlines received three further Airbus  A380s and now operates eight aircraft of this  type. Two more deliveries are planned for 2012. Airbus A320neo and A321neo in operation  from 2015 The Airbus A320neo and A321neo will join the  fleet starting in 2015 and will operate on conti- nental routes. These aircraft distinguish them- selves mainly through improved aerodynamics  and new engines, and consume up to 15 percent  less fuel than current comparable models, such  as the A320. In addition, the noise measurements  in the context of the certification of these aircraft  are expected to show significantly lower values  than for predecessor models. This again repre- sents important progress with regard to noise  reduction efforts. Lufthansa Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental: Larger, quieter, more environmentally friendly Lufthansa is the launch customer of the Boe- ing 747-8 and has 20 aircraft on order. 15% more fuel efficient than the  Boeing 747-400 Raked wingtips instead  of winglets Newly developed wings offer  aerodynamic advantages. Noise footprint is 30% smaller than  that of the Boeing 747-400 New aluminum alloys Newly developed engines (GEnx-2B67):  lower fuel burn, lower emissions and lower  noise profile than any previous engine Length 76.3 m Wingspan 68.7 m Height 19.4 m Wing area 554 m2 Fuel capacity 242,000 liters Cruising speed Mach 0.85 Maximum takeoff weight 442 tonnes  a Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 28 The A320neo will feature so-called sharklets, or  airflow-optimized wingtips, as standard equip- ment. A little over 2.5 meters high, these new  wingtips replace advantageously those used thus  far. Airbus promises fuel savings of up to five per- cent through the use of these sharklets. More- over, aircraft equipped with this new type of wing- tip can perform steeper climbs and thus reduce  noise on the ground. The order for the A320neo  reflects our demand for technically and economi- cally sustainable solutions. In the context of our  fleet modernization, these aircraft will consume  12 to 15 percent less fuel than our current A320s,  and they will be good neighbors thanks to a sig- nificantly reduced noise footprint. As a result of  shared efforts to convince the manufacturers, we  will be one of the first airlines to receive these air- craft from 2015, summarizes Nico Buchholz.   Lufthansa Regional Five more Embraer 195s for regional traffic In March, Lufthansa ordered five additional  Embraer 195s for Lufthansa Regional. These  advanced, economic and fuel-efficient aircraft  produced by the Brazilian manufacturer Embraer  will be delivered to the Group starting in 2012.  Their fuel consumption – extremely low for a  regional aircraft at a maximum of 3.9 liters of  kerosene per 100 passenger kilometers depend- ing on distance and payload – demonstrates just  how environmentally compatible the Embraer  195 is. The emissions values for this type of air- craft are also correspondingly low. Furthermore,  the Embraer 195 is characterized by low noise  emissions. This type of aircraft is operated by  Lufthansa CityLine as well as by the regional  partners Augsburg Airways and Air Dolomiti. SWISS Tenth Airbus A330-300 starts flight operations SWISS began operations with its tenth Airbus  A330-300 in January 2011 and thus completed  its first round of integrating this advanced type of  aircraft into its fleet. In addition, its affiliate Edel- weiss Air received a further A330-300 in Febru- ary 2011. Since April 2009, these new aircraft  have systematically replaced the existing fleet  of older Airbus A330-200s. Starting in 2012,  SWISS will incorporate another five A330-300s  into its long-haul fleet and thus operate 15 air- craft of this type in the future. Their highly effi- cient Rolls-Royce Trent 700 engines reduce  fuel consumption per passenger by about 13  percent compared with the predecessor model. Firm orders placed by the Lufthansa Group, delivery period 2012-2018 As per 31.12.2011 Fleet orders   delivery period  Long-haul fleet   9 Airbus A380s 2012 to 2015  20 Boeing 747-8s 2012 to 2015 5 Boeing 777Fs 2013 to 2015 (LH Cargo) 4 Airbus A330s 2012 to 2014  5 Airbus A330s 2012 to 2013 (SWISS) Medium-haul fleet   69 Airbus A320 Family (including neo) 2012 to 2018  8 Airbus A320 Family 2012 to 2014 (Germanwings) 5 Airbus A320 Family 2012 to 2014 (SWISS) Short-haul fleet   30 Bombardier CSeries 2014 to 2016 (SWISS) 13 Embraer EMB190 Family 2012 to 2013  The Airbus A320neo that Lufthansa has on order consume up to 15 percent less fuel than the previous A320 model,   thanks to improved aerodynamics and new engines.  a Balance 2012 | Lufthansa Group 29 Group fleet As per 31.12.2011  (changes compared with 2010)   in possession1   age1   in operation2   age2 Lufthansa German Airlines   355  ( + 13 )   11.4    ( – 0.1 )   275  ( + 1 )   13.2  ( – 0.2 )  Lufthansa CityLine   41  ( – 15 )   9.6   ( – 0.3 )   57  (  0 )   6.3  ( + 0.6 ) Air Dolomiti   6  ( – 2 )   10.2   ( + 0.4 )   16  ( – 1 )   8.0  ( + 0.7 ) Augsburg Airways   0  (  0 )   0.0     (  0 )   14  ( – 1 )   6.6  ( + 0.7 ) Contact Air   0  (  0 )   0.0     (  0 )   8  (  0 )   17.9  ( + 1.0 ) Eurowings   5  ( – 8 )   9.5   ( – 0.1 )   23  ( – 5 )   1.7  ( – 3.0 ) Germanwings   30  (  0 )   6.4   ( + 1.0 )   30  (  0 )   6.4  ( + 1.0 ) SWISS (including Edelweiss Air)   93  ( + 3 )   11.4  ( + 0.5 )   86  (  0 )   11.4  ( + 0.5 ) Austrian Airlines   88  ( – 6 )   12.5  ( + 0.9 )   81  ( + 1 )   12.6  ( + 1.0 ) Business segment Passenger Airline Group3   618  ( – 15 )     590  ( – 5 )    Lufthansa Cargo   18  (  0 )   13.7  ( + 1.0 )   18  (  0 )   13.7  ( + 1.0 ) Business segment Logistics   18       18      Group   636  ( – 15 )   11.3  ( + 0.4 )   608      ( – 5 )   11.2     ( + 0.4 ) 1  Aircraft in the Groups possession 2  Aircraft operated by the Group 3  without bmi Moreover, starting in 2014, SWISS will take deliv- ery of a total of 30 Bombardier CSeries aircraft,  which will replace the Avro RJ100 regional air- craft currently in operation. This move will allow  the airline to reduce fuel consumption by signifi- cantly more than 25 percent compared with the  Avro fleet. At the same time, CO2 emissions will  be reduced by about 90,000 tonnes per year.  Another plus is that the CSeries aircraft are 10 to  15 decibels quieter than the Avro RJ100s.  Lufthansa Cargo  Five Boeing 777Fs to strengthen the fleet In 2011, Lufthansa Cargo ordered five new Boeing  777 freight aircraft, which will be delivered between  2013 and 2015. The Boeing 777F is considered the  most modern cargo aircraft of its size, and accord- ing to the manufacturer it offers a higher degree of  efficiency and more capacity in long-haul markets  than any other twin-engined freighter. The Boeing  777F takes advantage of the advanced character- istics of the Boeing family, including a wing design  featuring raked wingtips. It also adheres to QC2  noise standards and therefore allows maximum  access to airports with strict noise limits. The cargo airline AeroLogic, in which Lufthansa Cargo holds an equity share of 50 percent,   operates modern Boeing 777F freighter aircraft. Lufthansa Cargo will also operate   this type of aircraft from 2013.  a Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 30 The operating fleet of the Lufthansa Group LH: 24 aircraft, 306 seats, 12,200 km range Airbus A340-600 LH: 26 aircraft, 2661 seats, 11,100 km range Airbus A340-300 LH: 15 aircraft, 221 seats, 10,000 km range Airbus A330-300 LH: 53 aircraft, 200 seats, 2,900/4,350 km range Airbus A321-100/200 LH: 42 aircraft, 168 seats, 3,020 km range Airbus A320-200 LH: 25 aircraft, 138 seats, 3,260 km range Airbus A319-100 LH: 30 aircraft, 3521 seats, 12,500 km range Boeing 747-400 LH: 22 aircraft, 120 seats, 1,950 km range Boeing 737-500 LH: 30 aircraft, 140 seats, 2,000 km range Boeing 737-300  Lufthansa German Airlines  including Lufthansa Regional  and Germanwings LH: 8 aircraft, 526 seats, 12,000 km range Airbus A380-800 Legend 4U   = Germanwings C3  = Contact Air CL  = Lufthansa CityLine EN  = Air Dolomiti EW  = Eurowings IQ   = Augsburg Airways LH   = Lufthansa German Airlines, Lufthansa Cargo LX   = SWISS OS  = Austrian Airlines WK  = Edelweiss Air Range indicated in general with maximum number of   passengers or payload, respectively. Number of aircraft in operation on 31.12.2011 1  maximum number of seats, different versions in operation  a Lufthansa Group | Balance 2012 34 Lufthansa    Best Transatlantic Airline at the World Airlines  Awards Skytrax 2011    Europes Leading Airline at the World Travel  Awards 2011   Award for Best Business Class on German  and European routes and Best Airline Website  for Business Travellers from the readers of the  magazine Business Traveller Deutschland   Best airline in the category Long-haul Gate- way at the Travel Star Awards of the Swiss  trade publication Travel Inside   Fast Travel Award 2011 of the air transport  association IATA   Cond Nast Traveler World Savers Award 2011  in the category Doing it All for the Groups  commitment in the areas sustainability and  environmental responsibility   Award in the category Sustainability: Envi- ronmental Innovation at the Travel + Leisure  Global Vision Award 2011    Special award for the Lufthansa biofuel project  burnFAIR at the Clean Tech Media Award 2011   Service Champion in the category Airlines in  Germanys largest service ranking   Multiple top rankings for Lufthansa Miles & More  at Frequent Traveller Awards 2011   Manager Magazin attested once again Lufthansas  first-rate image and selected the company as  Industry Winner 2011 in the category Transport  & Logistics   Double award for the Lufthansa School of Busi- ness from the European Foundation for Man- agement (EFMD) in 2011 for Partnership in  Design, Development & Delivery and for its  contribution to organizational development  within the scope of its partnership with the   Lancaster University Management School   and McGill University    Award for the onboard Internet access Lufthansa  FlyNet as Product of the Year 2011 from   Germanys leading computer magazine CHIP   Lifestyle magazine Mate honored Lufthansa with  the Travel Award 2012 for target group-oriented  product offers and appropriate communications Group companies and Group airlines   Award for SWISS as Europes Leading Airline  Business Class at the World Travel Awards  2011   SWISS again named Best airline on short- and  medium-haul routes at the Travel Star Awards  of Swiss trade publication Travel Inside, followed  by Lufthansa and Austrian Airlines.    SWISS honored as Best Airline in Western   Europe at the World Airlines Awards Skytrax 2011,  followed by Lufthansa and Austrian Airlines   Edelweiss Air again received Golden Star Travel  Award as Best airline on short- and medium- haul routes in the category Regional and   Leisure Airlines 2011   Austrian Airlines won first place in the catego- ries Best Business Class Catering and Staff  Service Excellence Europe at the World Airline  Awards Skytrax 2011   Austrian Airlines received the Crystal Cabin  Award 2011 for the European passenger seat    Award for Lufthansa Cargo as Carrier of the  Year and Best Carrier to Europe of the Cana- dian International Freight Forwarders Associa- tion (CIFFA)   Lufthansa Cargo selected as Best International  Freight Carrier by the Airforwarders Associa- tion (AfA)   Award for Lufthansa Cargo in the category  Easy to deal with at the Hellmann Worldwide  Logistics Global Carrier Award 2011   Award for Lufthansa Cargo as Best Cargo   Airline Worldwide and Best European Cargo  Airline at the Cargo Airline of the Year Awards   Lufthansa Technik received the Crystal Cabin  Award 2011 in the category Materials and  Technical Components for its evacuation path  marking system Guideline ColourFit    Lufthansa Systems honored as Company With  A Future 2011 in the category Large Compa- nies and in the category Social Responsibility  by the Polish business associations with regard  to its development location in Gdansk    LSG Sky Chefs awarded the renowned design  prize Observeur du design 2012 for its Busi- ness Class meal box Metropolitan Prizes and awards In 2011, Lufthansa again received numerous prizes and awards that honor the diverse commitments of  the Group and its companies. Below is a selection:  a Balance 2012 | Economic Sustainability 35 Economic Sustainability Infrastructure Corporate sourcing Group strategy Corporate governance and compliance Management and corporate structures  a Economic Sustainability | Balance 2012 36 In 2011, the Lufthansa Group further refined its  corporate strategy and its Mission Statement.  Given the swiftly changing market and competi- tive conditions, this is a necessary step on the  path toward expanding and strengthening the  position of the Lufthansa Group as an airline  powerhouse and Europes number one. Extraordinary challenges are almost daily fare for  the Lufthansa Group and the entire airline indus- try – natural catastrophes, political crises, military  conflicts, financial and economic crises, and epi- demics are all developments that quickly lead to  fluctuations in demand for air transport. In addi- tion, there are regulatory changes, such as Ger- manys aviation tax. The Groups business seg- ments have to adapt to new market conditions  continuously. In the future, the Lufthansa Group  will continue to act within a volatile market and  the fields of tension generated by numerous inter- national developments. New strategy secures the Groups future The Lufthansa Group pursues the explicit goal of  generating growth by creating value and continu- ing to secure the Groups future by means of a  sound financial profile over the long term. It is a  solid financial framework that creates the freedom  to shape the Groups development according to  strategic criteria rather than being obligated to  bow to short-term practical constraints. Against this background, Lufthansa has devel- oped a new strategic action framework that  allows the Group not only to adapt to constantly  changing external conditions, but also to take  an active role in shaping the industrys sphere  – independently of the current market position.  Just as our industry is changing and evolving,  Lufthansa has to adapt its strategy. The Lufthansa  Group must take part in shaping our industry and  remain the driving force in European civil avia- tion, emphasizes Sadiq Gillani, Senior Vice Pres- ident Group Strategy at Deutsche Lufthansa AG. One of the new strategys most important goals is to  further strengthen the Lufthansa Groups position as  Europes Airline Powerhouse and achieve a higher  operating margin over the long term. To reach these  objectives, the focus is on five core measures: 1. Reorienting the portfolio To focus its portfolio, the Lufthansa Group with- draws from persistently loss-making businesses,  as has already been done in the cases of Lufthansa  Italia and bmi. Furthermore, the company is con- sidering the possible disposal of non-strategic  equity investments, while simultaneously examin- ing selected airline acquisitions. Group strategy The Lufthansa Group –  Europes Airline Powerhouse in the future as well Over the past decade, the Lufthansa Group has risen to become the worlds leading aviation group.   Apart from actively participating in the consolidation process of the European aviation industry, the  company strengthened its international market position by continuously expanding Star Alliance, the  most successful airline network worldwide. Mission Statement In 2011, the Lufthansa Group further developed its corporate guidelines.   The new Mission Statement represents the essence of the Groups strategy.  It serves to set goals and in addition provides orientation both internally and  externally.   We are Europes Airline Powerhouse, connecting Europe with the world and  the world via Europe.     We provide reliable passenger and air-cargo services for our customers, in  seamless cooperation with our partners in a volatile environment.   As the worlds leading aviation group, we are the global leader in selected  aviation services.   Our highly motivated and dedicated team strives to deliver high quality. We  value entrepreneurship and collaboration, supported by transparency, trust  and diversity.   Our target is to grow profitably and maintain a healthy financial structure, to  enable investment in the development of our businesses, fleet and people.   We are committed to making a sustainable contribution through environ- mentally and socially responsible and compliant business practices.  a Balance 2012 | Economic Sustainability 37 2. Improving efficiency within the organization The efficiency across the organization is to be  increased further on a continuous basis by  improving coordination within the Group and  realizing synergy potentials – while maintaining  the business segments entrepreneurial responsi- bility. In this context, the flexibility and mobility of  employees and the topic of diversity play impor- tant roles. By launching the project Manage- ment Landscape 2020 (FK 2020), the Group  has already begun to introduce more diversity in  its management at all levels (see A key factor for  the Groups success: Diversity in management  on page 46). 3. Expanding and stabilizing leading market  positions The Lufthansa Group is market leader in many  segments and aims at stabilizing and selectively  expanding this position by means of growth. In  the other areas, the Group plans to achieve a  position of market leadership. To this end, man- agement counts on organic growth to develop  strategic markets such as Asia, South America  and Africa, as well as on growth in the different  business segments. 4. Improving earnings Furthermore, the Group intensifies those measures  that increase earnings. The earnings-securing pro- gram Climb 2011 of Lufthansa German Airlines  (2009-2011) is followed in 2012 by the corporate  program SCORE (see page 38). This program  consists of three key elements: projects in the  Group companies and Group functions; shared  projects involving the airlines; and projects cover- ing the entire Group. In addition to implementing  measures to improve earnings, SCORE aims at a  significant deepening of cooperation between the  airlines and service companies, and at tightening  the companys structures.  5. Making selective investments Selective investments in the Group fleet, in the  onboard product and in the infrastructure at the  hubs also serve to strengthen the Lufthansa  Groups competitiveness. Investments in projects  such as Pure Sky, which bundles the compa- nys biofuel activities, illustrate Lufthansas long- term commitment to corporate responsibility.  The investment volume is guided by the Groups  financing strength in order to secure investment  grade rating, the positive rating of the companys  financial standing, over the long term.   Megatrends pose challenges for civil aviation The civil aviation industry is facing significant challenges over the years  ahead from highly diverse external influences. The room for maneuver is  determined by worldwide megatrends that include the increasing globaliza- tion and international division of labor, population growth, increasing needs  for mobility, and the development of mega-urban regions.  According to the United Nations, there will already be 9.2 billion people on  Earth in 2050. Population growth is only taking place in developing nations.  This is accompanied by a trend toward more and ever larger megacities.  Today, 39 metropolises already represent more than 90 percent of air traffic  (takeoffs, landings, stopovers). Their number is expected to grow to 87   by 2030. By then, 12 of 20 airports for very large aircraft will be in Asia. In line with a growing world population and an increasing number of soci- eties participating in the division of labor, demand for mobility will continue  to grow – and along with it the need for resources. On the other hand, this  means greater scarcity of resources and thus an increasing oil price over   the long term. Lufthansa has to prepare itself for rising costs not only due   to continuously rising fuel prices, but also because of new taxes, such as  Germanys aviation tax, as well as oligopolistic supplier structures, for exam- ple among handling companies at many German airports. Simultaneously, the expansion of the Gulf airlines and the low-cost carriers  leads to continuously increasing competitive pressures on established ser- vice providers. Independently, situations of political upheaval and also natural  catastrophes – as occurred most recently in March 2011 in Japan – again  and again influence the situation in aviation and demand a high level of flex- ibility on the part of the airlines. Furthermore, supplementary financial burdens for aviation and the Lufthansa  Group are on the rise due to the EUs Emissions Trading System, which dis- torts competition (see Emissions trading system – Shared global solution  wanted on page 76). The weak economic situation in conjunction with these  increasing burdens will result in a cumulative loss of 600 million US dollars  for Europes airlines in 2012, according to IATA estimates.   population growth climate change globalization demographic change megacities environmental protection mobility emissions trading to secure ones living safety shortage of resources service-oriented society capital markets spheres of political power financial and economic crisis  a Economic Sustainability | Balance 2012 38 Further optimizing the control of the   flying companies With a 75-percent share in the Groups 2011 rev- enue, the flying companies are the engine driv- ing the Lufthansa Group. The Group is planning  to optimize their coordination and control further.  Growth is increasingly shifting to the emerging  nations and thus opening up new markets from  Europe. The focus of the Lufthansa Group is on  the further development of its long-haul network,  the strengthening of partnerships within Star   Alliance, the expansion of joint-venture coopera- tions in the North Atlantic region, and the devel- opment of new airline joint ventures in Asia, such  as Japan+, founded in 2011 with Japanese Star  Alliance partner ANA. Lufthansa German Airlines adapted its structures  to the changed competitive environment on   1 April 2011 in order to meet the market challenges  with a new organization that is even closer to its  customers and markets. Simultaneously, internal  decision-making and management processes  are to be simplified. In this context, Lufthansa  German Airlines reinforced the successful coop- eration with Group subsidiary Germanwings. The  goal is to increase customer value by means of  increased flexibility and to strengthen the eco- nomic efficiency of decentralized connections  within Europe. This includes the companys   Berlin strategy. By stationing a modern Airbus   fleet in Berlin, significantly expanding flight  options, creating several hundred new jobs  and making investments of more than 60 million  euros, the Lufthansa Group significantly broadens  its presence in the Berlin region in 2012. Logistics, MRO, IT Services, Catering As one of the most important service providers  in the logistics industry, Lufthansa Cargo AG will  focus even more prominently on more efficient  processes, quality leadership and IT standard- ization. Meanwhile, Lufthansa Technik AG con- centrates on generating organic growth within  the existing portfolio. The focus here is on the  precise identification and meeting of customer  expectations, but also on internal topics such as  lean processes or Great Place to Work. A fur- ther point in the strategic orientation is a stronger  presence in growth markets. Lufthansa Systems is implementing the restruc- turing program Jetzt! (Now!). At LSG Sky  Chefs, the worlds largest provider of airline cater- ing, the focus is on future strategy to grow prof- itably. To this end, the company will not only  invest in new markets and services, but has also  aligned activities in Germany even more explic- itly to local market conditions since 1 July 2011.  Among other measures, this includes an expan- sion of the entrepreneurial room for maneuver at  the individual locations. Corporate program SCORE The fundamental conditions for a future-oriented  development of the Lufthansa Group are sustain- able business practices and profitable growth.  These two factors create the foundations for  investments in a modern fleet, innovative prod- ucts for customers, qualifications for employees,  the commitment to social concerns and the activ- ities in environmental care. To be able to finance  the investments planned, the Group needs signifi- cantly higher profits, which the company intends  to achieve by means of the corporate program  SCORE – Change for Success, which was pre- sented in February 2012 to about 1,000 manag- ers. Its goal is to increase the operating result by  at least 1.5 billion euros by the end of 2014, com- pared with 2011. The programs savings will have  a full effect on annual results from 2015. SCORE is the acronym derived from the action  areas on which the corporate program concen- trates: synergies, costs, organization, revenue and  execution. At the same time, the term also refers  to achieving something and making a score. The new program includes all business seg- ments and airlines, and consists of three signifi- cant building blocks: projects within the Group  companies; joint projects involving the air- lines; and projects involving the entire Group.  SCOREs focus is on measures that increase  profitability by means of synergistic effects, cost  reductions, structural changes and long-lasting  revenue increases, explains Josef Bogdanski,  who heads SCORE.  Beyond that, the concept aims at significantly  intensifying the cooperation between the air- lines and the service companies and tighten- ing the structures. For example, tasks are to be  bundled to realize synergies that have so far  not been taken advantage of for the good of the  entire Group. To start with, the focus is on opti-  a Balance 2012 | Economic Sustainability 39 mizing neighborly exchanges, to realize syner- gies from joint purchasing and to reduce costs in  the administrative areas, says Bogdanski. Further  projects at the level of the business segments  and the Group level are currently being set up. Group strategy is the guideline All the same, while the new Group strategy has  priority, it is not set in stone and is rather a guid- ing principle that is to be adapted, developed  further and fi lled with life by management and  employees. For this reason, Lufthansa has cho- sen a number of approaches to impart the new  strategy and the necessity of SCORE to the  employees. This includes reports in the Groups  internal media, comprehensive information on the  intranet, and numerous internal events such as  town meetings with the top management. In the future, the Lufthansa Group will continue  to benefi t from the diversity of its business seg- ments, which have a stabilizing effect on the  development of revenues within the system the  company represents. This structure built on busi- ness segments will continue to serve as the basis  on which the company can develop through prof- itable growth over the long term.  The goal of SCORE presented by the Executive Board to about 1,000 managers on 6 February 2012,  is to increase the Groups operating result sustainably by at least 1.5 billion euros by 2014. Operating profi t achieved in a  diffi cult market environment In the 2011 fi nancial year, the Lufthansa  Group increased revenues by 8.6 per- cent and reported an operating profi t  of 820 million euros in an extremely  diffi cult and turbulent market environ- ment. However, the high cost of fuel,  regulatory interventions such as the  German aviation tax, and charges resul- ting from the sale of British Midland Ltd.  (bmi) led to a negative Group result.  As an exception to the companys divi- dend policy, the Executive Board and the  Supervisory Board decided neverthe- less to have shareholders participate in the operating success and have paid  out a dividend of 25 cents a share. The trust in the Lufthansa share and in the  positive development of our company pays off, said Christoph Franz, Chair- man of the Executive Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG. For further  information on the Lufthansa share, see page 22 onwards in the Lufthansa  Annual Report 2011 or its online version at  www.lufthansa.com/investor-relations   a Economic Sustainability | Balance 2012 40 was introduced in September 2004. It is to guaran- tee employees from breaking the law, train them in  applying and interpreting legal norms, and support  them with advice in their daily work. Given the topics importance, Lufthansa set up a  Compliance Office on 1 October 2007, as part of its  central legal department, which reports to the Chair- man of the Executive Board. It is responsible for the  implementation, further development and communi- cation of the Lufthansa Compliance Program and is  available as a central contact for questions regard- ing compliance. In addition, Compliance Com- missioners, who are named at the various Group  companies, ensure the Group-wide adherence  to and the effective implementation of the Com- pliance Program. The Compliance Office coordi- nates the investigation of circumstances relevant to  compliance and in this context serves as a contact  point for cartel and investigative authorities. In such  cases, Lufthansa fully cooperates with the authori- ties. The core components of the Lufthansa Compli- ance Program are its compliance guidelines. These  are binding internal regulations that give employees  not only strategies but also a binding framework for  Furthermore, the Group places the greatest  importance on open and clear corporate com- munications in order to respond to steadily ris- ing demands for information from sharehold- ers, employees, customers and the public – thus  maintaining and strengthening their trust in the  Group. Lufthansa fulfills the recommendations of  the German Corporate Governance Code with  few exceptions. For the declaration of conformity  pursuant to the German Corporate Governance  Code, see the Group Management report in the  Annual Report 2011 on page 28. A comprehen- sive compliance program, as described below,  ensures lawful conduct with regard to legal  requirements and prohibitions. The Lufthansa Compliance Program As adhering to legal and social regulations and  standards is everyday practice at Lufthansa, the  Group has not formulated a separate Code of  Conduct. Special attention is placed on ensur- ing a corporate culture that demands conformity  with rules and creates a framework of conditions  that promotes such conformity. This is the pur- pose of the Lufthansa Compliance Program, which  Corporate governance and compliance Responsible company management in line with the rules of effective corporate governance is a sub- stantial part of Lufthansas identity. The efficient, transparent structures and processes implemented   by the company reflect this approach splendidly. Management and corporate structures Lufthansa is a German stock company with headquarters in Cologne. The company employs the  dual management structure ordinarily followed in Germany. The Executive Board is solely responsible  for steering the company, aligning it strategically and increasing its value long-term. The Supervisory  Board appoints, advises and supervises the Executive Board.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG fulfills two functions: It is  the ultimate parent company and the largest oper- ating company within the Group. Shareholder structure The Lufthansa share has been traded on German  stock exchanges since 1966. It is represented in  the German Share Index DAX and is part of the  Prime Standard of Deutsche Brse (German Stock  Exchange). Lufthansa fulfills the highest level of  international transparency requirements related  to this standing. The companys share capital is  divided into 457.9 million registered shares, which  are held by about 352,000 shareholders. Accord- ing to the standards of Deutsche Brse, the free- float quota was at 100 percent for Lufthansa shares  at the end of 2011. 38.5 percent of the equity capital  was held by private investors, and 61.5 percent by  institutional investors. The share of German share- holders was 68.6 percent (see chart on page 9). To  maintain its international traffic rights and air trans- port operating permit, Lufthansa must be able to  prove at any time that the majority of its shares are  in German possession.   a Balance 2012 | Economic Sustainability 41 action which guarantee a standardized and law- abiding external conduct for Lufthansa. The com- pany is not willing to tolerate possible violations of  law on the part of its employees. Culpable breaches  of law lead to consequences under labor law and  may also entail personal liability. The Lufthansa Compliance Program currently com- prises four building blocks: Competition, Capital  Market, Integrity and Corporate Compliance. Competition Compliance The module Competition Compliance introduces  employees to the relevant regulations of cartel  legislation, so as to minimize or exclude risks for  Lufthansa in this area. The Competition Compli- ance guideline provides a strategy for conduct in  the context of business contacts with third par- ties as well as a binding framework of action to  ensure a standardized and lawful external pres- ence of Deutsche Lufthansa. All employees han- dling issues relevant to a cartel are trained in  the fundamental regulations of European and  national antitrust legislation by means of a Web- based training (eLearning). Special emphasis is  given to those areas of antitrust law that have par- ticular importance for everyday business practice. Capital Market Compliance The module Capital Market Compliance famil- iarizes employees with current capital market  law, such as regulations relating to insider trad- ing or ad hoc publicity. The goal is to keep both  the Lufthansa Group and its employees from  breaking the law. In the context of Capital Market  Compliance the employees and executive bod- ies concerned are also instructed by means of  Web-based training, which gives them in-depth  insights into the regulations of the securities  trading law. The laws individual provisions are  explained in the context of daily practice and the  explanations are illustrated with many examples. Integrity Compliance With the module Integrity Compliance, Lufthansa   documents its fundamental approach of law- abiding conduct in business relationships.  The obligation on the part of Lufthansa and its  employees to adhere to non-corrupt and ethi- cally correct conduct flows naturally from cur- rent law, the internal compliance guidelines and  Lufthansas memberships in relevant national  and international organizations. Examples of  these are Lufthansas commitment to the princi- ples of the UN Global Compact, its membership  in Transparency International and its obligation to  respect the ICC guidelines to combat corruption  in business dealings. The Integrity Compliance guideline provides sup- port in handling invitations, gifts and other atten- tions and indicates room for maneuver. Further- more, it raises awareness for potential conflicts of  interest. The obligatory Web-based trainings spe- cifically teach employees behavior conforming  to compliance. The trainings provide a compre- hensive overview of the legal framework, causes  and facts of economic crimes. Employees are  instructed by means of realistic practical exam- ples relating to specific business segments about  possible compliance risks. Control questions at  the end of each learning unit allow employees to  check the material learned. Corporate Compliance The module Corporate Compliance bundles  those internal regulations that are considered  essential for Lufthansa from a legal perspective  and makes these transparent for employees. Compliance training Automated IT processes ensure that all employ- ees and executive bodies at Lufthansa participate  in the eLearning courses relevant for them once a  year. The employees of the subsidiary companies  can also access these eLearning courses. As a  complement to eLearning courses, the Compli- ance Office regularly offers trainings involving  the participants physical presence. Compliance  trainings are also an integral part of leadership  seminars, management courses and other inter- nal continuing education and training events at  Lufthansa. Ombudsman system The ombudsman system, which has been imple- mented worldwide, has been an integral and  tried-and-tested part of Lufthansas Compliance  Program. It was introduced on 1 December 2007  and serves both as an additional preventive mea- sure against economic crimes and at protecting  Lufthansa and its employees. Relevant information can be given by employ- ees or by third parties to an ombudsman outside  the company, either by telephone, in writing or in  person. This function is fulfilled by a lawyer. In the  context of his contractual relation with Lufthansa,  the ombudsman establishes with the informant  a particular relationship of trust, which consists  of the transmission of the information entrusted  to him to Lufthansa under absolute secrecy with   a Economic Sustainability | Balance 2012 42 To secure the results in a lasting way and to  deepen them, the Group procurement function  was set up as a new organizational unit report- ing to the Executive Board member in charge of  finances and aviation services. This department  continues work on the fundamental issues and  also plans the conclusion of setting up the larg- est part of a Group-wide procurement IT infra- structure by 2015. One of the goals in this area is  to support supplier management by standardized  processes on the application side. An integral part  is the topic of corporate responsibility (CR) along  the chain of suppliers. Lufthansa already demands  that its suppliers adhere to binding CR criteria and  has anchored these Group-wide in its contracts  Corporate sourcing At the end of 2011, Lufthansa successfully concluded the project Procurement Leadership, which it  had launched in early 2009. The focus was on two topics: the professionalization and standardization  of the Group-wide procurement processes and the creation of a strategic goods category manage- ment. The latter was to enable the procurement areas to contribute sustainably about 300 million euros  to the operating result by 2011. regard to the name and identity of the informant.  In this relationship, the ombudsman is fully bound  by the legal obligation of professional secrecy  and also has the right to refuse evidence vis-- vis any public investigative authorities that might  become active. In addition, Lufthansa and the  ombudsman have expressly agreed that the  identity of an informant will not be revealed and  any documents the ombudsman might have  received will not be handed over, unless the infor- mant has expressly stated his or her desire that  these items be made public. The revealing of an  informants identity to Lufthansa or third parties  without his or her consent is therefore ruled out. Monitoring and reporting All Compliance Commissioners of the Lufthansa  Group get together once a quarter. Their goal is  to inform about current new developments in the  area of compliance and initiate the implementa- tion of relevant measures. In addition, the relevant  implementation of an effective compliance pro- gram is evaluated with reference to the current  requirements in the context of the accounting  modernization law by means of self-audits and  external audits. and internal guidelines. In the future, however, the  assessment and audit of suppliers from a compre- hensive perspective of corporate responsibility will  move more to the foreground. Lufthansa continues  to orient itself by internationally accepted conven- tions on environmental protection and employee  safety, legal requirements concerning the fight  against corruption, and security regulations in  information processing. Suppliers that do not  accept these contractual clauses are not admitted  to Lufthansas circle of suppliers. The Supervisory Boards Audit Committee is  informed twice a year by means of the Compli- ance Report about current developments as they  relate to compliance issues and the current state  of the implementation of the Compliance Pro- gram within the Group, including training rates.  a Balance 2012 | Economic Sustainability 43 Against this background, aircraft manufacturer  Airbus predicts that the number of passen- ger aircraft will double by 2030 (from 15,000 to  31,000) as will the number of passengers, which  is to grow by 4.8 percent per year on average.  Over the same period, the volume of air cargo  is even expected to grow by 5.1 percent a year.  To secure such increasing mobility needs, a  demand-oriented and appropriate infrastructure  is needed. For many years, the Lufthansa Group  has endeavored to make the transport of people  and goods as sustainable as possible, for exam- ple by operating more fuel-efficient and quieter  aircraft. On the ground as well, the aviation group  makes its contribution to orienting the infrastruc- ture to future challenges in a circumspect and  realistic manner. Airport infrastructures adapted  to demand are an important element in the tried- and-tested four-pillar strategy for climate pro- tection formulated by the aviation industry (see  graphic on page 71). Frankfurt Airport Over the past five years, Lufthansa alone invested  about 1 billion euros at its Frankfurt location. With  about 71,000 employees at around 500 com- panies, Frankfurt Airport is not only the largest  single place of work in Germany, but it is also an  important lifeline for the Federal Republic. The  Infrastructure Investments secure tomorrows mobility Mobility is one of the indispensable fundamentals of our current way of life. It brings people together, is  the engine driving economic and social developments, and creates individual affluence. The growth of  the worlds population, the rising number of mega-urban regions and intensifying globalization create  an ever-increasing demand for mobility. export-oriented German economy and the coun- trys entire logistics industry benefit from the cen- tral location of one of the worlds leading passen- ger and cargo hubs. At the same time, Frankfurt is  the home base of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, which  employs 37,000 people locally and is thus con- sidered Hessens largest employer. The basis for  further economic growth and numerous addi- tional jobs are in particular the Runway North- west, which was opened on 21 October 2011,  and new terminals. For example, the new runway  increases the airports capacity by 50 percent.  Furthermore, the inauguration of the new A-Plus  pier is slated for summer 2012. It will be used  exclusively by Lufthansa and increase the airlines  capacity by 6 million passengers per year. By contrast, the rigid night-flight ban between   11 p.m. and 5 a.m. at Frankfurt Airport, which was  confirmed by the Federal Administrative Court in  Leipzig at the beginning of April 2012, will have a  palpable negative effect on the economic devel- opment of this important German export and  logistics location. As worldwide competition is  continuously increasing, Lufthansa – and in par- ticular its subsidiary Lufthansa Cargo – depend  on competitive operating hours at its hubs. On  North Atlantic routes in particular, the nighttime  departures are indispensable for our customers.  Frankfurt Airports new Runway Northwest.  a Economic Sustainability | Balance 2012 44 The migration of urgent express products to other  hubs in Europe will continue, explains Karl Ulrich  Garnadt, Chairman of the Executive Board and  CEO of Lufthansa Cargo AG. Switching to other  airports is impossible for Lufthansa Cargo, how- ever, as more than half the cargo on board pas- senger aircraft is transported via Frankfurt. Munich Airport At Munich Airport, Flughafen Mnchen GmbH  (FMG) and Lufthansa will construct a new satel- lite building at Terminal 2 by 2015. Terminal 2 sur- passed its capacity of 25 million passengers for  the first time in 2011, when it handled 26.5 million  passengers. The new building will provide addi- tional handling capacities for 11 million passen- gers for Lufthansa and its partner airlines, thus  meeting the requirements of continuing growth in  passenger volumes.  At the same time, the satellite building will set  new standards in the areas of sustainability and  energy efficiency, as its ratio of CO2 emissions  will be 40 percent lower than those of the two  existing terminals. To achieve this, its walkable  climate facade with refrigeration storage media  stores cold during the summer months from the  natural cooling during the night, which it releases  during the day. Furthermore, air conditioning will  take advantage of modern displacement flow dif- fuser technology. Inside the building, a glass wall  closes off the area where passengers change  from one level to another from the actual terminal  levels. The space thus isolated serves as a cli- matic buffer for the entire building. Berlin Brandenburg Airport In context with the opening of the new Berlin  Brandenburg Willy Brandt Airport (the opening  was postponed from June 2012 to March 2013)  the Lufthansa Group is expanding its presence   in the capital region significantly by stationing a  fleet of modern Airbus aircraft, boosting its time- table extensively, creating several hundred addi- tional jobs and investing more than 60 million  euros. For example, Lufthansa Technik is invest- ing 16 million euros in new office and hangar   surfaces for the maintenance of short- and  medium-haul aircraft. The maintenance hanger  will provide space for up to five standard fuselage  aircraft or one wide-body aircraft up to the size   of an Airbus A340 (see Lufthansa Technik builds  maintenance hangar at the new capital city air- port in Berlin on page 83). On 23 April 2012, the cornerstone was laid for the new satellite facility at Munich Airport. This new building will provide Lufthansa   and its partner airlines with additional handling capacities and thus allow them to accommodate the rising number of passengers.  a Balance 2012 | Social Responsibility 45 Social Responsibility  Diversity Employment policy based on partnership Corporate training and continuing education Employee health and safety protection Facts and outlook  a Social Responsibility | Balance 2012 46 This increasing complexity will also have an  effect on the Lufthansa Group. To ensure that  the Lufthansa Group can master these chal- lenges successfully, it is of central importance to  increase the level of diversity in the companys  management landscape. A more broadly set-up  management team that disposes of varied com- petencies and experiences makes it easier for the  company to meet heterogeneous market require- ments and customer demands. In addition, a  diversified management level not only secures  the long-term competitiveness and future viability  of the aviation group, but it also allows the com- pany to act flexibly in a complex environment at  any time, and to recognize customer needs more  quickly, better understand them and translate  them into the best possible products and ser- vices – the most important consideration for a  service company. To realize the potential of a systematic diversity  management and prepare the Lufthansa Group  for current and future developments, the Executive  Board initiated the project Management Land- scape 2020 (FK 2020) in 2011. The goal is to  realize more flexibility and diversity at all manage- ment levels and to expand these qualities among  junior executives across the Lufthansa Group.   FK 2020 is an integral part of the Lufthansa  Groups strategy and will make a significant con- tribution to improving the companys performance  and competitiveness. The focal point of this proj- ect, which includes all business segments, is on  the diversity dimensions of all ages, gender bal- ance, mixed cultures and different skills. This  selection takes into account the predominantly  monocultural character of current management,  which is to become gradually more heteroge- neous by means of FK 2020. For Lufthansa, a broad range of competencies  and experiences in management is a central  resource for reaching its goals in the future as  well. In this context, varied international, profes- sional and cultural backgrounds play an increas- ingly important role. By means of the project  Management Landscape 2020, the company is  able to access this potential over the long term  in a structured manner and to mirror the diver- sity among its customers and employees with an  equally diverse management. Broader scope in age distribution secures  management resources  To counteract the looming lack of qualified   personnel and managers, the Lufthansa Group  aims at a broader scope in age distribution  among managers. The reason is that 60 percent  of Lufthansa managers are currently above the  age of 46, while the average age of managers  is 48. Thus, management responsibility is mostly  in the hands of a single age group. Over the  medium term, such homogeneous age structures  lead to a lack of qualified young managers as  a significant part of todays managers will leave  the Group simultaneously in 2019. Therefore,  the transfer of knowledge to subsequent man- agement generations has to be prepared early  and anchored structurally. FK 2020 will make a  significant contribution in this area and expand  the scope of age in Lufthansa management. A  greater degree of age variance secures our new  Diversity A key factor for the Groups success:  Diversity in management Companies with international operations increasingly operate in the field of tension created by world- wide megatrends. Globalization, intensifying cost and competitive pressures as well as ever-more   varied customer profiles and demands require significantly more flexibility, performance and efficiency.  Additional pressure on companies comes from demographic change and – particularly in Germany –  the looming lack of qualified personnel and managers. Our goal is to dismantle barriers of  any kind long-term and to create an  attractive work environment in which  women and men equally shape and  develop the companys future across  all hierarchy levels.  Stefan Lauer Chief Officer Group Airlines &   Corporate Human Resources  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  a Balance 2012 | Social Responsibility 47 generation of management, provides more per- spectives due to different backgrounds of expe- rience and allows us an effective steering of the  knowledge and experience transfers at the higher  management levels, explains Michael Bttcher,  Director Project Executive Management Land- scape 2020.  Better incorporate the potentials of   female managers The share of women in management positions   stood at 13.6 percent in 2011 at the Lufthansa  Group, while the share of women with staff  responsibility reached 35.5 percent. This shows  that a decisive pool for the Groups management  recruitment has not been sufficiently addressed  thus far, as having more women in management  positions enriches and strengthens Lufthansas  management landscape. Therefore, FK 2020 is to  increase the share of women in higher manage- ment by about 30 percent by 2020. Our goal is  to dismantle barriers of any kind long-term and  to create an attractive work environment in which  women and men equally shape and develop  the companys future across all hierarchy levels,  emphasizes Stefan Lauer, Chief Officer Group Air- lines & Corporate Human Resources at Lufthansa  Group. Promote managers international experience An outward-looking perspective and a respect- ful way of treating each other and customers are  a matter of course for an aviation company with  international operations such as the Lufthansa  Group. Considering the continued development of  globalization and interlinking of markets, Lufthansa  needs a management team that knows the dif- ferent demands of markets and is able to handle  them with ease. To do so requires an ever-greater  degree of internationalization – not only among  employees, but also among managers. However,  at the moment only 14 percent of the Groups  managers do not have German nationality. Every  fifth management position is located outside of  Germany and 61 percent of these are filled by  German nationals. To increase the level of inter- nationalization among managers and upcoming  managers, FK 2020 will help identify and pro- mote highly qualified candidates with experience  abroad and prepare them for working with non- German management colleagues. More flexibility and scope for shaping man- agement careers Against the background of the challenges posed  by Lufthansas dynamic business environment,  flexible career models and alternative careers  are gaining increasing importance. Apart from  professional leave – in the shape of sabbatical  years, for example – this also includes the option  of transferring the responsibility of a management  position to two managers. As Stefan Lauer points  out: Leadership is divisible as well. To increase  the number of leadership tandems, Lufthansa is  planning to make their creation easier by imple- menting appropriate measures across the Group.  Part-time work in management allows both male  and female managers to reconcile career goals  with family obligations and personal interests. From the companys perspective, there are also  good reasons for more flexible work-time models  in higher management – such as increased work  motivation and productivity as well as improved  identification with the employer and its goals.  Making careers more flexible also means more  room for maneuver for the Group. One of the  advantages of going beyond pure line organiza- tion or complementing line organization with proj- A greater degree of age variance   secures our new generation of   management, provides more per- spectives due to different back- grounds of experience and allows us  an effective steering of the knowledge  and experience transfers at the higher  management levels. Michael Bttcher  Director Project Executive Management   Landscape 2020, Deutsche Lufthansa AG Presentation of the project Management Landscape 2020  at the managers conference on 6 February 2012 in Frankfurt.  a Social Responsibility | Balance 2012 48 The switches have been reset Whether services gain acceptance in the market  depends decisively on the suitability, motivation,  qualification and flexibility of the people who pro- vide these services. To ensure that the altered and  optimized processes and instruments of FK 2020  really lead to increased diversity in the Lufthansa  Groups management, an accompanying change  management concept is an integral part of the  project. Its task is to prepare managers for the  upcoming modifications, take away their fears  and make them committed supporters of the  changes ahead – for the good of the entire com- pany and its employees. With FK 2020 Lufthansa  has reset the switches for the future viability of  the Group with its worldwide operations. ect and expert careers is that it gives more scope  for organizing an effective team quickly and independently of location. Additionally, man- agers who have passed through different profes- sional stages have acquired a greater wealth of  experience. Shaping structural changes together The core team responsible for the project Man- agement Landscape 2020 comprises four  employees, who work in close cooperation with  the human resource departments at the Group  companies. Additionally, FK 2020 is advised by a  consulting committee. Its members are manag- ers from all companies and management levels,  who simultaneously act as multiplicators. In the  current project phase were above all working on  assessing factors such as efficiency and costs  of selected measures and instruments, explains  project manager Michael Bttcher. As soon as  this diversity check will be concluded in the sec- ond quarter 2012, we will decide which measures  we will implement in practice. Management diversity All ages Mixed cultures Different skills Gender balance Alignment and processes Change and communication Development and staffing Flexibility Structures Culture Individuals Structure of the project FK 2020 with the four diversity dimensions of all ages, mixed cultures, different  skills and gender balance FK 2020  a Balance 2012 | Social Responsibility 49 Diversity activities 2011: Added value through varieties At the Lufthansa Group, people from 141 nations contribute to the companys success every day. They  come from the most different cultures and ethnic backgrounds, belong to different age groups and pro- vide an enormous scope of views and competencies. This diversity among its personnel is decisive for  the company in its quest to secure its favorable competitive position over the long term.  Just as other companies with international  operations, Lufthansa is subject to international  mega trends such as globalization, demographic  change, lack of qualified personnel and manag- ers, and highly dynamic markets, to name but a  few factors. For many years, the Lufthansa Group  has counted on systematic diversity management  to find suitable solutions for the complex chal- lenges of the 21st century. This includes a point of  view characterized by openness, which acknowl- edges diversity among employees, appreciates  it and incorporates it as a strategic resource into  the service of the company and its employees.  This perspective has been part of Lufthansas  entrepreneurial identity for many years and led to  setting up the organizational unit Change Man- agement and Diversity in the area Group Per- sonnel Policies as long ago as 2001. Nevertheless, the Lufthansa Group always aims  at adapting its diversity management to changing  external conditions and developing it further. This  includes transferring the traditionally high level of  structural diversity among employees to the area  of management (see A key factor for the Groups  success: Diversity in management on page 46). appreciation creates value Whether a company produces innovative ideas  and products depends decisively on whether  its employees are able to apply the diversity of  their competencies, their attitudes and ways of  thinking. The switches are set by the Lufthansa  Groups company-wide diversity strategy, which  is based on the principle appreciation creates  value. The focus is on efforts to create an appro- priate balance between the Groups economic  interests and the employees individual and social  concerns. Special attention is given to the diver- sity dimensions of equal opportunities and sup- port for women, work-life balance, cooperation  between different generations, disabilities and  cultural diversity, although the emphasis can  vary from one business segment or company to  another. Women in management positions At the Group, the share of women in manage- ment positions increased from 13.1 percent in  2010 to 13.6 percent in the reporting year. The  decline in the share of women with staff responsi- bility, that is to say with functions below the man- agement levels, is due to consolidation effects.  This value declined from 36.8 percent in 2010  to 35.5 percent in the reporting year (see page  52). Absolutely, the numbers of women with staff  responsibility increased from 4,518 in 2010 to  4,843 in 2011. Equal opportunity Lufthansa has had a new Manager for Equal  Opportunity since 1 May 2011 (see interview on  page 51). It is her task to develop concepts and  suggest measures that improve the professional  opportunities for women and that allow men and  women to reconcile job and family more readily.  To this end, she is in constant dialogue with man- agers, personnel departments, employees and  employee representatives. At a glance:  Of 116,365 employees, of which ...  ... 44.6 % are women  ... 35.5 % are women with staff responsibility  ... 13.6 % are women in management positions  ... 5.2 % are pilots, ... 57.8 % work in Germany.  Worldwide, 141 nationalities are represented in the  Lufthansa Group. The average age is 40.8 years. As per 31.12.2011  a Social Responsibility | Balance 2012 50 More and more women in the cockpit Female pilots have been an everyday sight at  Lufthansa for 25 years – in the beginning as first  officers and since 1 January 2000 also as cap- tains. In 2011, Ingeborg Kelderman became the  first woman at Lufthansa Cargo to take the cap- tains seat aboard a MD-11F. I hope that the  number of female captains will increase signifi- cantly over the years ahead, says Fokko Doyen,  Fleet Chief MD-11F at Lufthansa Cargo AG. On  31 December 2011, the company employed 436  pilots, including 19 women. At Lufthansa German   Airlines and the other Lufthansa companies with  flight operations, it was a total of 8,807 pilots,  including 458 women.  Cross-company Mentoring On 28 September 2011, the starting signal was  given in Frankfurt for the 13th Cross-company  Mentoring. The goal of this program, which was  initiated in 1998 by Lufthansa, is to support  women in strengthening their leadership qualities,  planning their next career steps and creating pro- fessional networks. The intercompany program  allows the creation of tandems for limited periods  of time, consisting of a female employee with staff  responsibility from one company and a male or  female mentor from a higher hierarchical level  from another company. In addition to Lufthansa,  which is currently represented with seven tan- dems, participating companies include Deutsche  Bank, Bosch and Merck. The initiative is paying  off: 42 percent of the Lufthansa employees hav- ing finished the mentoring process now have a  management position at the Group. Another tool  for increasing the share of women among super- visors with staff responsibility is the focused iden- tification of talented female employees among  team managers, executives and in the opera- tional areas. Compatibility of job and family The compatibility of job and family is no longer a  private matter. Lufthansa has supported mothers  and fathers for many years with offers for child  care. In 2011, the company decided to increase  the number of day-care places and by 2012 their  number was doubled. Another positive develop- ment is that the number of men who take paren- tal leave to look after their children for a certain  time is establishing itself across the Group. Lufthansa employees are also not alone when it  comes to looking after senior family members.  In the framework of Elder Care, they receive  support from the external service provider pme  Familienservice. Numerous work-time models,  which include self-planned working hours on the  honor principle, also contribute to making pro- fessional and private lives more compatible with  each other. Fathers taking parental leave – An experience to be recommended  I have two children and took parental leave both times – an experience I highly  recommend to other fathers. The months at home were not always easy, but they  fostered the connections between my children and me enormously. In addition, it  allowed my wife to go back to work full-time after a parental leave of 12 months,  even though we were still waiting for a day-care place at that time. It was also   positive that both my supervisor and my colleagues supported my decision. This  was not a given because the workload was high and every employee was needed  urgently. Marcus Hellmann NDT-Personnel for Wheels and Brakes at Lufthansa Technik in Frankfurt Ingeborg Kelderman is Lufthansa Cargos first female captain on the MD-11F.  a Balance 2012 | Social Responsibility 51 At the location in Hamburg, employees of   Lufthansa Technik have benefited from a child  care offer close to their jobs since early 2012.  The day-care center Kinderpropeller offers  care for up to 90 children with and without dis- ability up to the age of six years. The center was  founded in part thanks to the commitment of  the charity TechnoKids, which was initialized by  Lufthansa Technik employees, and a donation  from company management. Cultural diversity At regular intervals Kultu  Raum invites pursers  and flight attendants to brush up their intercul- tural competencies. The focus of these continu- ing education events spanning several days is  on the cultures of the Lufthansa core markets  India, Japan, China and Korea. These trainings  increase the understanding of national particu- larities and also impart knowledge about religion  and concerning conflict avoidance. Cooperation between different generations Lufthansa has looked into the phenomenon of  demographic change, which affects the individ- ual business segments and Group companies  with different levels of intensity. In this context,  age and the ability to perform need to be evalu- ated separately. For example, the employees of  Lufthansa Cargo and Lufthansa Technik have a  high average age. In addition, a relatively high  number of these employees have physical tasks,  which means higher levels of stress than their  colleagues working in offices, for example. It is  certain that the average age and length of work- ing life will continue to increase. In 2011, a struc- tural age analysis was carried out at Lufthansa  Cargo, which also allows a prognosis for the  years ahead. We need to think today about how  we can ensure a balanced age structure tomor- row, and how the know-how of retiring employees  can be maintained for the company, emphasizes  Claus Wachenheim, Head of Human Resources  at Lufthansa Cargo.  Strategic personnel planning will ensure that  there will be no shortage of suitable candidates  for key positions in the future. Moreover, broad- based company health management, lifelong  learning, support for diversity and increasingly  flexible working hours all contribute to mastering  the challenges of demographic change and to  securing the employability of staff. At the Group  level, the topic of demographic management also  has the highest priority. In 2011, the focus topics  of the internal expert round, which meets regularly,  Three questions for the new Manager  Equal Opportunity   Juliane Grauer has been the new Manager  Equal Opportunity at Deutsche Lufthansa AG  since 1 May 2011. Previously, this qualified psy- chologist worked at different companies and in  various areas of the Lufthansa Group – includ- ing as a consultant at Lufthansa Consulting, as  a trainer at the Lufthansa School of Business,  in personnel management and as a manager  in the subject area JobChange in the depart- ment Group Personnel Policies.   What are the tasks of the Manager Equal Opportunity?   As Manager Equal Opportunity I develop concepts and measures that help  improve equal professional opportunities for women and men within the  company. One of the central elements of my work is to increase the aware- ness of this topic and reduce prejudices. At the moment, I assume this  responsibility exclusively in Germany because management of companies  outside of Germany know the local regulatory and cultural conditions much  better and in part have their own contact partners for this topic. Neverthe- less, were in close contact. What makes your new job interesting and where are your current  areas of emphasis? My task is indeed a real challenge. On the one hand, because there is the  expectation in the political debate to have more women in management  positions, and on the other because of the self-chosen obligation of the   Lufthansa Group to increase the share of women among managers by   30 percent by 2020. Above all, well only be able to increase the number  of women in management positions if were able to improve the care offers  for young children among other things, so that highly qualified women no  longer have to choose between career and family. Were working on this,  for example by making counseling and child care offers available through  the companies pme Familienservice GmbH and Medical Airport Services  GmbH. In addition, we contract day-care places from external service pro- viders within acceptable financial limits. Theres no doubt that well work  intensively on this topic for some years to come.  In which areas has Lufthansa already realized equal opportunity   and where do you see need for action?   With a share of 44.6 percent the Lufthansa Group has a high share of  women for the entire company. Women even dominate in service-oriented  jobs, while there could be more of them in technical fields. When it comes  to flexible working hours, were also doing very well. However, we often see  that this option is far from being used by everybody. There, we still need to  work on persuading people. Last but not least, we aim at diminishing tradi- tional role concepts, so that the growing number of men whod like to take a  greater role in their families independently of their professional position have  the opportunity to do so and receive the necessary support.   a Social Responsibility | Balance 2012 52 Part-time work by Group companies2 2011, in percent Group  27.1  26.9 Deutsche  Lufthansa AG  43.5  44.1 Group abroad  16.4  15.8  Lufthansa Technik  10.2  10.9  Lufthansa Cargo  18.0  18.8 Systems LSY Group   21.0  20.5 LSG Group  15.5  15.1    2011    2010 Age structure at the Lufthansa Group3  2011, in percent 60 and over  2.9 55 – 59  6.8 50 – 54  11.3 45 – 49  18.0 40 – 44  17.3 35 – 39  13.7 30 – 34  13.7 25 – 29  10.3 20 – 24  5.1 18 – 19  0.7 under 18  0.2 1  Scope of consolidation without LSG outside Germany, SWISS Aviation Training, Edelweiss Air AG,  SWISS European Airlines, LH Italia S.p.A., SWISS Aviation Software, Traviaustria, Lauda Air Luft- fahrt GmbH, LH Malta Holding Ltd., LH Malta Aircraft Leasing Ltd., Shannon Aerospace Ltd., LH  Technik Malta Ltd., LH Technik Airmotive Ireland Ltd., LH Technik Switzerland GmbH, LH Technik  Budapest Replgeb, Hawker Pacific Aerospace Inc. (US), LH Technik Landing Gear Services UK  Ltd., BizJet Int. Sales & Support Inc., AirLiance Materials LLC, LH Technik North America Holding  Corp., LH Systems Americas Inc., AirPlus Air Travel Card Vertriebsges. mbH, LH Flight Training  Berlin GmbH, AirPlus International Ltd., AirPlus International S.r.I., AirPlus Payment Management  Co. Ltd., AirPlus International AG, AirPlus International Inc., LH Malta Finance Ltd., British Midland  Airways Ltd. 2  2011 do not include bmi; comparative 2010 value adjusted for bmi 3  Scope of consolidation partially without LSG outside Germany, LH Italia S.p.A., LH Malta Holding  Ltd., LH Malta Aircraft Leasing Ltd., LH Technik Philippines Inc., Shannon Aerospace Ltd., LH Tech- nik Malta Ltd., LH Technik Airmotive Ltd., LH Technik Budapest Replgeb, Hawker Pacific Ae- rospace Inc. (US), BizJet International Sales & Support Inc., AirLiance Materials LLC, LH Technik  North America Holding Corp., LH Malta Finance Ltd., British Midland Airways Ltd., LH Technik Lan- ding Gear Services UK Ltd. (previously Hawker Pacific Aerospace Ltd., UK) 08 09 5 10 15 20 15 25 30 25 35 40 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 10 42.7 43.9 25.2 29.7 35.5 40.3 41.1 42.6 43.8 26.5 26.9 15.6 18.0 23.5 24.6 24.6 25.7 26.8 14.0 42.7 26.9 14.0 13.6 8.4 9.6 15.1 13.9 13.0 13.7 14.3 Part-time employment at the Lufthansa Group2 in percent female  employees male employees all  employees 11 44.2 27.1 13.3 01 02 03 04 05 06 08 09 07 40.7 38.3 38.7 39.1 39.6 40.1 40.2 40.4 40.3 40.3 36.4 37.0 37.7 38.3 38.8 38.9 39.1 39.0 39.0 38 39 40 36 37 38 39 39 40 41 41.8 39.8 39.9 40.2 40.6 41.1 41.3 41.5 41.5 41.4 39.5 10 40.8 41.9 39.6 11 Average age at the Lufthansa Group2,3 in years female  employees male  employees all  employees 08 25 30 35 40 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 29.2 30.8 28.0 32.0 32.5 34.7 35.8 38.0 09 41.5 10 36.8 Share of women with staff responsibility at the  Lufthansa Group1,2 in percent 10 15 08 09 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 14.6 14.7 12.7 13.5 12.3 13.3 12.7 12.9 15.0 Share of women in management positions at the  Lufthansa Group1,2 in percent 10 13.1 11 35.5 11 13.6 As per 31.12.2011  a Balance 2012 | Social Responsibility 53 Andreas F. Schneider of brandstage tv, satirist Rainer Schmidt, Dr. Martin Schmitt, Senior Vice  President Executive Personnel at Deutsche Lufthansa AG and Dr. Jrgen Graf, Head of Lufthansa  Medical Care (from left) in dialogue during the Inclusion Day. were the integration of the Group airlines and the  deployability of employees with changed levels of  performance. People with disabilities In Germany, the Lufthansa Group employs about  2,200 people with disabilities. They make an  important contribution to the companys success.  Their integration is a central goal of personnel  policy, which is anchored in the diversity strat- egy. In the reporting year, the share of employees  with disabilities in Germany stood at 3.4 percent  (preceding year: 3.5 percent) Group-wide. In the  individual companies, their share varies between  zero and 22.5 percent (LSG Stuttgart). The air- lines, in particular, are faced with a more signifi- cant challenge in reaching the 5-percent quota.  For flying personnel, there are only rare cases  where a disability allows the status fit to fly. The  Group concentrates on optimally supporting  existing strengths and competencies, and pro- vides adapted places of work. In 2011, Lufthansa organized numerous dialogue  events to increase awareness of the specific chal- lenges faced by colleagues with disabilities. In  addition, the first Inclusion Day took place under  the motto Top in Job – Despite Disability in  March 2012 at the Lufthansa Aviation Center   in Frankfurt. Numerous organizations that are  concerned by the topic of disabilities – such as  the Federal Employment Agency, the Center for  Self-determined Life of People with Disabilities,  and the Diabetes Association – were present with  information stands and available for dialogue  or to answer specific questions. Stefan Lauer,  Chief Officer Group Airlines & Corporate Human  Resources at Deutsche Lufthansa AG, specifically  supported the event. Diversity as a subject in continuing education  Group employees find a broad range of continu- ing education options at the Lufthansa School  of Business concerning the topic of diversity;  enrollment is voluntary. This includes one-day  courses involving personal participation and fea- turing expert lectures, learning dialogues as well  as individual and group exercises to deepen the  knowledge acquired. Further areas of emphasis  include the six core dimensions of diversity, the  conscious unlearning of prejudices and the per- ception of potentials. Disabled people at the Lufthansa Group in Germany1   2011, in percent  Lufthansa Technik Logistik GmbH  8.1  Lufthansa Cargo AG  7.5 LSG (subgroup)  7.3  Lufthansa Systems (subgroup)  5.4  Lufthansa Technik AG  4.5  Lufthansa Process Management GmbH  4.4  Lufthansa Flight Training GmbH  4.0  Lufthansa AirPlus Servicekarten GmbH  2.8  Lufthansa Technik Maintenance Intern. GmbH  2.5  Lufthansa World Shop GmbH  2.4 Deutsche  Lufthansa AG  2.3  Lufthansa CityLine GmbH  1.5 Lufthansa Technik AERO Alzey GmbH  0.9 Eurowings AG  0.5 Germanwings GmbH  0.5 Lufthansa Training & Conference Center GmbH  0.5 1  Share of people with significant disabilities at the consolidated companies in Germany:   estimated values, based on analyses as per 31.12.2011. Overall, the employment ratio for the consolidated companies reached 3.4 percent. There were no employees with significant disabilities at the following companies: Lufthansa Cargo  Charter Agency, Jettainer, Miles & More, LSG Lufthansa Service Catering- und Dienstleistungsge- sellschaft mbH and Lufthansa Flight Training Berlin.  a Social Responsibility | Balance 2012 54 Employment policy based on partnership It is a tried-and-tested company policy to clarify conflicts of interest between company management  and the employee representation in an open and transparent manner. A fair approach to coexistence   in all areas creates the necessary balance to advance the Lufthansa Groups position in the market. Information, consultation and participation in  corporate decisions The increasing plurality of opinions and opinion  leaderships – analogous to social developments  as a whole – is an increasing challenge for all  parties concerned. Therefore, the guidelines for  joint efforts are flexibility and the ability to react  within the market.   Partnership in collective agreements   in Germany Lufthansa employs its staff under conditions that  provide them with social and material security  not only during their professional lives but also  afterwards. These are established on the basis of  collective agreements which the company nego- tiates with its union partners Vereinte Dienstleis- tungsgewerkschaft (ver.di), Vereinigung Cockpit  (VC) and Unabhngige Flugbegleiter Organisa- tion e.V. (UFO). The goal is to treat all employee  groups across the Group fairly and justly – a  standard that is faced with an increasingly chal- lenging framework of conditions owing to the plu- rality of unions within the company. Lufthansa agreed with the company-wide and  local employee representations in July 2011 on  a viable future concept for the ground staff at  the stations in Bremen, Hanover, Cologne and  Nuremberg. In addition to immediately imple- mented measures aimed at increasing efficiency,  the agreement calls for phasing out certain sta- tion services step-by-step. Lufthansa guarantees  its staff at these stations continued employment  and thus keeps attractive professional perspec- tives within the company open for them. The 2011 pay round for cockpit personnel was  opened by Vereinigung Cockpit (VC), which  gave proper notice concerning the collective pay  agreement as per 31 March 2011. An agreement  was reached as early as June. After two years  without pay increases, the pilots received a pay  settlement with an increase of 3.5 percent under  an agreement valid until 30 April 2012. On behalf of the ground personnel working at  Deutsche Lufthansa AG in Germany, the Aviation  Employers Association (Arbeitgeberverband Luft- verkehr, AGVL) and the union ver.di agreed on 26  January 2012 on a new collective pay agreement.  It calls for retroactively increasing the benchmark  figures in the pay tables by 3.5 percent effec- tive 1 January 2012. The agreements term is  13 months. The supplement to holiday pay was  increased to 1,075 euros, the pay for appren- tices was increased by a flat rate of 60 euros,  and other allowances and supplements were  increased moderately. The union Unabhngige Flugbegleiter Organisa- tion (UFO), which had formed a collective pay  association with ver.di only a few weeks before  the negotiations, refused the offers made by the  employers side on behalf of cabin staff. As a  result, negotiations were restarted in the first half  of 2012 with the goal of maintaining standard pay  scales. For LSG Sky Chefs and the business segment  MRO, the unions and management agreed spe- cific rules. At LSG Sky Chefs, the key issue is to  secure the competitiveness of the LSG Sky Chefs  companies in Germany over the long term. In the  business segment Catering, the increase from  this pay round is to be used for an employment  guarantee and for a one-time payment of 250  euros per full-time employee. The Lufthansa sub- sidiary will refrain from operations-related layoffs  for the duration of the agreement negotiated dur- ing the 2012 pay round.  For the business segment MRO, the partners  agreed on the key points concerning the intro- duction and financing of a success-related pay  scale, and starting the withdrawal from a transi- tion supplement, which has been in effect since  the introduction of a new pay scale in 2007. On  the one hand, this collective wage agreement  reflects Lufthansas results in 2010 and 2011. But  above all, it is an acknowledgment of the employ- ees contribution to strengthening the Lufthansa  Groups competitiveness by having agreed to a  wage freeze for the period of 22 months.  a Balance 2012 | Social Responsibility 55 After the conclusion of the arbitration process in  January 2011, cabin staff were obligated to keep  industrial peace until the end of the year. The  interim period was used for a dialogue with the  union Unabhngige Flugbegleiter Organisation  (UFO) concerning urgently needed adaptations in  pay structures and measures to increase com- petitiveness in continental traffic. While Lufthansa  and UFO were able to agree on key points, a  conclusive agreement could not yet be reached  in 2011. The dialogue on necessary changes was  restarted in the first half of 2012 in the context of  the collective pay negotiations. Active pay and social policies also abroad Internationalization and globalization offer com- prehensive opportunities for the business and  personnel processes across the Group. As a  company with international operations, Lufthansas   pay and social policies are guided by the respec- tive general conditions in individual countries.  The focus is on the long-term definition of the  conditions of employment, which depend on  employee needs, operational requirements and  the local labor market. In all countries where   Lufthansa acts unilaterally, the company uses  benchmarks and macroeconomic data such as  inflation to assess salaries once a year for their  viability in the context of the market and com- petitiveness. Thus, Lufthansa offers a continuous  evaluation and adaptation of working conditions  for its locally employed staff. In countries with  high rates of inflation this assessment, which ordi- narily leads to pay increases, is carried out every  six months. Lufthansa also enters into pay negoti- ations with employee representatives in countries  such as Ghana and Ethiopia, were the company  has no more than 15 to 20 employees. As a member of the UN Global Compact, Lufthansa  has documented its support of the freedom of  association and the right to collective bargaining  for all employees worldwide. Employees in any  country where Lufthansa companies are active  are free to organize themselves according to  legal conditions and thus participate in shaping  their working conditions.  Lufthansa Group: Jobs around the world  2011 Frankfurt / Main  36,949 Hamburg      9,982 Munich     10,308 Cologne  2,507 Berlin  1,427 Rest of Germany  6,090 Total in Germany  67,263 Rest of Europe  23,404 thereof Vienna  5,649            Zurich  6,910 Africa / Middle East  2,085 North / Central America  12,956 South America  3,093 Asia / Pacific  7,564 Group total  116,365 Employees by group and gender 2011, in percent Women 51,873 Men 64,492  44.6  55.4 Apprentices 1,616  24.4  75.6 Ground2 80,263  37.6  62.4 Flight3 34,486  61.9  38.1 Cockpit 8,807  5.2  94.8 Cabin 25,679  81.3  18.7      female employees      male employees Distribution of employees within the Lufthansa Group1  2011, changes in percent 2011 2010 change  Group employees 116,365 113,406 + 2.6 of which Passenger Airline Group 55,361 53,544 + 3.4 of which Logistics 4,624 4,517 + 2.4 of which MRO 19,975 20,159 – 0.9 of which IT Services 2,820 2,935 – 3.9 of which Catering 29,586 28,499 + 3.8 of which Others 3,999 3,752 + 6.6 1  2011 do not include bmi; comparative 2010 value adjusted for bmi 2  without apprentices 3  consists of cockpit and cabin As per 31.12.2011  a Social Responsibility | Balance 2012 56 Seventh employee survey with record participation Lufthansa has counted for many years on regular employee surveys to  establish the level of identifi cation with the employer, weak areas or work sat- isfaction. In 2011, the seventh edition of Employee Feedback Management  (EFM) took place. Worldwide, 23,464 employees at Lufthansa German Airlines  and in Group functions seized the opportunity to participate in capturing this  mood snapshot. Participation reached 63.9 percent, its highest value so far  (2008: 52.8 percent), which corresponds to an increase of 20 percent. This  is a considerable level of advance trust, says Matthias Borchers, Vice Presi- dent Personnel Development Lufthansa German Airlines.  In comparison with the previous employee survey in 2008, the employees  of Lufthansa German Airlines were more satisfi ed with their salaries and  communications than their colleagues in Group functions. There were also  differences concerning the subject area Learning & Innovation, which the  employees of the operations-related areas rated more favorably than those  in administration. The feedback from employees must be taken seriously by  managers, Borchers emphasizes. For this reason, it is every departments  task to enter into a dialogue and join forces to launch improvements.  Leadership feedback from employees Specifi c feedback concerning their leadership performance was given in  2011 to managers at Lufthansa Technik, Lufthansa Technik Logistik, Lufthansa  Technik Maintenance International and Lufthansa LEOS as part of the ini- tiative Great Place to Work. The surveys goal was to improve the way of  working together within the company, to launch dialogues about the work  situations within teams and to optimize them with appropriate measures if  needed. The leadership feedback was given on the intranet by means of  questionnaires, which the employees could complete anonymously. The sur- vey was accompanied by information events for the 1,640 managers at the  participating companies. Once the survey results were available, evaluation  discussions took place between supervisors and employees to form the  basis for determining concrete action areas and measures. Employee representation at the  European level Over the past years, the Lufthansa Group has  established itself as an employer with about  23,000 employees in Europe, but outside of  Germany. At home, it is the task of the works  councils, the personnel representatives, the  employee representatives on the supervisory  boards and the unions to strike a balance  between the different interests of employers  and employees. However, such a multipart sys- tem does not exist in all European countries.  Since 1996 Lufthansa has met these legal require- ments in the framework of the Groups industrial  relations agreement EURO-Info with a spe- cifi c extension of the Group Economic Commit- tee for cross-national issues. In accordance with  the codetermination committees, the company  has taken advantage of the option to agree on a  setup that is better adapted to Lufthansas spe- cifi c conditions. This regulation (art. 13 Agree- ment), which protects existing rights, makes the  election of a European works council unneces- sary. It provides, among other measures, that  representatives of company management teams,  works councils, cabin crews and foreign com- panies work together and participate in at least  one meeting per year of the Group Economic  Committee.  JobChange – Paths toward new professional  perspectives The Lufthansa Group pursues a long-term per- sonnel policy that gives high priority not only to  operations-related requirements but also to the  interests and concerns of its employees. It has  always been an important consideration for the  aviation group to create secure jobs that pro- vide a long-term professional perspective. Nev- ertheless, business-related restructurings cannot  always be avoided, and so it was in 2011. In such  cases, Lufthansa has successfully counted on the  job placement system JobChange to adapt staff  capacities as socially compatibly as possible and  to assume its responsibility for these employees  during the process of change.  a Balance 2012 | Social Responsibility 57 As an employer who acts responsibly concern- ing social and civic issues, Lufthansa hired 808  young people in 53 training professions in 2011  in Germany.  The Lufthansa School of Business (LHSB) Germanys first corporate university has been  responsible for the need-oriented qualification  of employees and managers across the entire  Group since 1998 – across all age brackets. In  doing so, it interlinks the individual qualification of  employees with the companys development and  thus contributes to tackling necessary processes  of change at the Group successfully. Last year  showed again that the investments in the devel- opment and continuing education of our employ- ees and managers are paying off, says Ulrike  Schlosser, Head of Lufthansa School of Business.  Therefore, we will continue this strategy in 2012  as well. Professional perspective with a future The LHSBs spectrum comprises tailor-made  trainings, management programs as well as   network and dialogue platforms. Together they  form the basis for the professional development   of managers, the cooperation within teams and   the implementation of the Groups strategy.   Moreover, the institution cooperates with  se lected international business schools and  academic organizations. For its partnership  with the Lancaster University Management  School and McGill University in the framework  of the International Masters Program in Prac- ticing Management (lMPM), Lufthansa was  awarded a prize by the European Foundation  for Management in 2011.  Talent managements focus:   The best in their field Lufthansa searches continuously for highly-qual- ified young employees. The close cooperation  with universities and technical universities plays  an important role in this context. For example, as  part of its university marketing, the company is  regularly present at internship fairs, participates  in workshops, and provides speakers.  Selected students also have the opportunity of  getting to know the aviation group firsthand dur- ing the annual Experience Lufthansa days. Furthermore, in 2011 Lufthansa and the Avia- tion Management Institute at the EBS Busi- ness School organized the second edition of  the Lufthansa Case Challenge. A total of 189  teams from more than 25 countries participated  in the academic competition for bachelors  and masters students. The competition, which  focused on the topic of sustainability, aims at  gaining impulses from the academic environ- ment for practice-related issues. The six groups  with the most innovative concepts reached  the final and thus had the opportunity to pres- ent their ideas to a jury comprising Lufthansa  top managers and EBS experts. The patron of  the Lufthansa Case Challenge is Sadiq Gillani,  Senior Vice President Corporate Strategy at  Deutsche Lufthansa AG. In 2012, the competi- tions topic is innovation in the aviation industry. Corporate training and continuing education The more qualified the Lufthansa Groups employees are, the more successful the Group can be in  competition. For this reason, the aviation company has offered a broad range of professional and inter- disciplinary training and continuing education options – even in times that were economically difficult.  Knowledge secures the future Last year showed again that the in- vestments in the development and  continuing education of our employ- ees and managers are paying off.   Ulrike Schlosser Head of Lufthansa School of Business Deutsche Lufthansa AG  a Social Responsibility | Balance 2012 58 Unfailing: Lufthansas attractiveness   as an employer For many years, Lufthansa has been ranking  among the most popular employers in Germany.  Regular top spots in the key employer rankings  prove that the investments in development and  continuing education of employees and manag- ers are paying off. In 2011, Lufthansa was again  honored as one of the most preferred employ- ers: For the fifth time in a row, the company was  ranked in the top group of German companies  in the business section of the Universum Student  Survey 2011. The aviation groups high level of  attractiveness is also reflected in the number of  job applicants. In 2011, about 155,000 job seek- ers applied for 6,000 vacancies that the com- pany had posted. There was also great interest  in www.Be-Lufthansa.com. In the reporting year  alone, on average more than 210,000 viewers per  month visited the Groups job and career portal,  which has had its own presence on Facebook  since April 2010. With about 25,000 fans – that is  twice as many as in 2010 – it has developed into  one of the most popular career portals of German  companies in this social network. Playful way into the working world Since the beginning of 2012, Lufthansa has pre- sented for the first time a captivating and innovative  tool for young people on www.Be-Lufthansa.com,  designed to help them find a suitable professional  start at the company. The Professional Orientation  Game is aimed at pupils from 14 years of age and  high-school graduates who are interested in a pro- fessional training or a course of study. The goal is  to explore ones own strengths in a playful manner,  to find appropriate training options at Lufthansa  and to gain an impression of the working environ- ment in this way before making a decision. The  use of the game is free of charge and anonymous. In the same way, the annual students information  days Fascination Lufthansa serve the purpose  of giving firsthand knowledge about the numer- ous training and study options at the Group to  young men and women who are at the start of  their professional lives. On 12 dates throughout  the year at the Lufthansa Training & Conference  Center in Seeheim, the information days pro- vide insights into the multifaceted range of jobs in  the aviation industry – including specialist for air  transport services, flight attendant, pilot, techni- cal and business-oriented professions as well as  those in the area of hospitality. International focus on recruiting   young employees Lufthansa offers university graduates an attrac- tive professional start with the ProTeam Gen- eral Management Trainee program. In the first  month of this international initiative, the partici- pants learn in presentations and hands-on activi- ties in different company areas about the Groups  great variety. This is followed by project stints in  Germany and abroad; in a parallel move, train- ings and workshops take place to accompany  the personal development of the young employ- ees. In 2011, Lufthansa hired 12 ProTeam train- ees, of whom 30 percent have an international  background.    Another initiative that generates more internation- ality at the Lufthansa Group is the company-wide  program explorers. Its eighth edition, which was  launched in November 2011, counts 147 partici- pating young managers from all Group compa- nies. The explorers platform serves the indi- vidual development of professional and per- sonal competencies, the creation of ones own  networks within the Group and the promotion  of international cooperation between the Group  companies. The finalists of the Lufthansa Case Challenge 2011 together with the jury  a Balance 2012 | Social Responsibility 59 In 2011, the steering committee Strategic Health  Care Management, led by Monika Rhl, Director  Change Management and Diversity, took a close  look at the question of what is more sensible: To  aim prevention primarily at individual employ- ees – as has been the case so far – or to shape  health care management to address the organi- zations issues more directly in future as well. The  result will be a guideline based on the WHOs  definition describing health as physical, psy- chic and social well-being. This approach also  indicates which measures will have to be imple- mented in the areas of work organization, leader- ship, work-life balance and corporate culture. Medical Service One key position in the health and prevention  concept of Deutsche Lufthansa AG is the Medi- cal Service, headed by Professor Uwe Stben. Its  physicians in occupational, aviation and tropical  medicine are available to employees with health  problems – in close cooperation with Group  Employee Safety, the internal social counseling  service and the health experts at the Group com- panies. To promote interdepartmental exchanges  about health-related topics, the Working Group  Health meets four times a year. Its members are  representatives of the Medical Service, Employee  Safety, Social Counseling as well as Personnel  and Health Management.  In 2011, the Group again supported its employ- ees with varied offers concerning health preven- tion and promotion. This included back training  courses, programs to quit smoking, screenings  to prevent chronic illnesses, inoculations, advice  on reducing stress and preventing addictions.  Numerous individual campaigns for cabin crews  in Frankfurt and Munich on focus topics such as  feet, sleep or nutrition complemented the offers.  Regular articles on the intranet and in the staff  newspaper Lufthanseat provide information  about the broad range of these options. Firmly established: Health week   at the Lufthansa Aviation Center Regularly organized health days and weeks are  very popular with Lufthansa employees. For this  reason, numerous campaigns again took place in  2011 at the Group locations in Germany with the  aim of promoting employee health. This included  the health week at the Lufthansa Aviation Center  in Frankfurt from 15 to 18 August 2011. Empha- sis was placed on the topic Burned out? – Fill  up! to give Lufthansa employees the opportunity  to learn in detail about causes and symptoms of  stress and burnout, and about appropriate ways  of handling stress. The program also included  presentations and campaigns on the topics of  diagnosis and ergonomics, nutrition and exercise  as well as stress management and work-life bal- ance. These activities were organized in coop- eration with the Medical Service, the Lufthansa  Sports Association, Employee Safety and Social  Counseling as well as external partners.  Employee health and safety protection Healthy, committed and performance-oriented employees are a fundamental condition for the Lufthansa  Group to maintain its position in international competition successfully in the future as well. Accordingly,  the protection of employee health and safety enjoys a high priority within the company. Enterprise health Health week 2011: Information stand of the Medical Service   at the Lufthansa Aviation Center.  a Social Responsibility | Balance 2012 60 Keep up health days for station employees The Keep up health days opened their doors for  the third time on 28 and 29 September 2011 in  Frankfurt, this time under the motto Healthy in all  senses. The highlight of this event, designed for  employees at the station, was the Age Explorer,  a large-scale protective work suit. This simula- tor makes it possible to experience age physi- cally and emotionally, and thus increases the  understanding for older customer groups and  their needs through personal experience. Sen- sory perception such as seeing, hearing, tasting  and smelling were not neglected either and were  the subject of numerous information stands and  campaigns, including eye and hearing tests. Campaign week to promote responsible con- sumption of alcohol To inform without demonizing – that was the  goal of the Campaign Week Alcohol, realized  by the Groups Social Counseling from 23 to 27  May 2011 at the locations in Frankfurt, Cologne,  Munich and Hamburg. The occasion was the  Germany-wide campaign Alcohol? Less is bet- ter! by the German Central Office for Addic- tion Issues, which Lufthansa actively accompa- nied with information and campaign stands. It  is our concern to make employees and manag- ers aware of the effects of alcohol – as set out in  the Addiction Guidelines of the Lufthansa Group  – and to increase awareness of risky consump- tion patterns and to inform about the develop- ment of addiction, explains Birgitt Erb, employee  at Lufthansa Social Counseling. Opportunities to  experience the effects of alcohol were provided  by drunkenness goggles, which simulate how  alcohol changes perceptions and affects the abil- ity to react and perform. The offers were comple- mented by an information course and a driving  simulator as well as performances by a cam- paign theater in Frankfurt. Patron of the event was  Stefan Lauer, Chief Officer Group Airlines & Corpo- rate Human Resources at Deutsche Lufthansa AG.  Fit on the job – Health day at headquarters in  Cologne Balanced nutrition and sufficient exercise are  indispensable for maintaining health. Accordingly,  the health day on 12 April 2011 at headquar- ters in Cologne focused on asking how lifestyle- related risks can be identified and avoided, and  which options are available to effectively coun- teract specific burdens caused by modern work  environments. Employees were keenly interested  in information offered by Weight Watchers, back  massages, health checks offered by the Medical  Service, a drunkenness goggles course as well  as information stands and campaigns on the top- ics of exercise, sports, nutrition, stress manage- ment and relaxation.  Cargo-fit on tour For two weeks in May 2011 the Cargo-fit health  truck made its way through Germany as part  of the Cargo-fit on tour campaign. During its  pit stops at the stations in Munich, Nurem- berg, Stuttgart, Dsseldorf, Cologne, Frankfurt,  Hanover, Bremen, Hamburg, Norderstedt and  Berlin, Lufthansa Cargo employees received  valuable health tips and individual fitness plans.  Very popular were the back check and the force  plate in particular. Apart from visiting a broad  range of information and test stands provided by  numerous internal and external health-care pro- viders, employees also had the opportunity to  do something good for their health by cycling on  a stationary bike. Under the motto We bike to  Africa Cargo employees covered a total distance  of 6,360 flight kilometers (cycled kilometers multi- plied by 10) – more than is covered by the entire  Tour de France. Lufthansa Cargos management  turned the kilometers pedaled into a donation of  3,180 euros for the Kenyan orphanage Mothers  Mercy Home, which has been supported by the  humanitarian help organization Cargo Human  Care for many years (see Cargo Human Care –  Medical help for people in East Africa on page 96).  In May 2011, the Cargo-fit health truck rolled its way across Germany.  a Balance 2012 | Social Responsibility 61 Metabolic syndrome: Long-term study of   Lufthansa Technik with Hamburg University One in six Europeans is affected by metabolic syn- drome, in some EU countries it is even one in three.  The syndromes characteristics are a combination  of excess weight, diabetes mellitus (type 2), high  blood pressure, increased blood lipid concen- trations and increased risk of cardiovascular dis- eases. This is reason enough for Lufthansa Technik  and the Medical Service of the Lufthansa Group  to join forces with the University Clinic Eppen- dorf and Asklepios Clinics Hamburg to conduct  a long-term study to investigate the conditions in  the development of diabetes, which affects about  8 million people in Germany alone. A key goal  of this study is to identify very early indications of  a disturbed blood sugar metabolism by means  of regular medical examinations, and to prevent  the development of diabetes mellitus by means  of resolute changes in nutrition and lifestyle as  well as with medications, if needed, says Anja  Knotte, HR Manager Personnel & Social Policies  at Lufthansa Technik. The starting signal for the  ten-year Lufthansa Prevention Study (LUPS) for  the early identification of metabolic illnesses was  given at the end of 2008 with the participation of  the Medical Service. The first round of examina- tions drew 1,962 employees between the ages of  25 and 60 years at Lufthansa Technik, Lufthansa  Revenue Services and Lufthansa ground per- sonnel at the Hamburg location as well as their  relatives. The first follow-up check took place in  November 2011.  Social counseling Nobody is safe from crisis and conflict situations.  To ensure that such situations do not impact  either the working climate or work performance,  the Lufthansa Social Counseling Service at the  locations in Frankfurt, Hamburg, Cologne and  Munich has given support to affected employees  in tackling private and professional challenges  since the mid-1980s. In addition, the services  representatives were again actively involved  in the companys health management in 2011.  They took part in the steering committee Stra- tegic Health Management, which among other  things developed the Guidelines for the Corpo- rate Health Management of the Lufthansa Group,  and thus in numerous health campaigns initiated  by the company. Corporate reinsertion management Cancer, depression, severe disability: There are  many reasons why employees are unable to work  for longer periods of time. In such cases, the  corporate reinsertion management smooths the  path toward a return to work for employees who  are ill for more than six weeks during a 12-month  period. At the end of 2011, Lufthansa physicians  discussed options for the professional reinsertion  in work processes with 30 medical doctors of dif- ferent specialties, representatives of health insur- ance companies, pension funds and social coun- seling services at hospitals. This expert exchange  between physicians and social services provid- ers, which was offered as a continuing educa- tion event in Frankfurt, was hosted by Dr. Roland  Nowak of Lufthansas Medical Service. Employee safety: Organization and tasks To prevent work-related accidents and illnesses  uncompromisingly – that is the focus of employee  safety at Lufthansa. The Group department  Employee Safety is responsible for coordinating  activities and continuously developing measures  related to work safety. It fulfills this task in close  coordination with physicians, social counselors  and experts at the Group companies. The goal  is to identify possible hazards at an early stage,  to assess them and to implement measures to  reduce the number of accidents continuously. A  further goal is to reduce the risk of work-related  illnesses and other hazards associated with work  to a minimum or to eliminate them.  a Social Responsibility | Balance 2012 62 Area Facts 2011 Outlook 2012 Training   At the end of 2011, more than 2,500 people participated in training and  qualification measures. Concurrently, Lufthansa hired 808 new trainees  and students in dual courses of training during the reporting year.   In 2011, the Group trained and hired more than 4,900 service profes- sionals, who work predominantly as flight attendants and in passenger  handling.    In 2011, Lufthansa Flight Training GmbH in Bremen signed contracts  with 268 new trainee pilots. Thus, the total number of future pilots incre- ased by 12 percent compared with the preceding year.   For the Lufthansa Group, intensive, needs-oriented training will conti- nue to play a central role in securing qualified junior staff.   In this process, Lufthansa increasingly takes into account changes  made by many universities and colleges (e.g. the standard of  bachelors degrees).  The training portfolio is thus subject to permanent change. Continuing education /  employability   Despite economically demanding times, Lufthansa offered comprehen- sive educational measures in 2011 as well.    The Lufthansa School of Business (LHSB) emphasized the optimization  of interdisciplinary training across the entire Group. In this context, the  product offer was expanded to include the employees of the Group  airlines as well.    Overall, the internal budget for education increased by 21 percent to  123 million euros. The number of participant days increased by 10  percent to 681,000. The LHSBs topic of the year – Modern Working  World – gave participants the opportunity to investigate the related  challenges and, based on concrete examples, formulate measures than  can be directly implemented.   As a future-oriented company, Lufthansa advanced the design of digital  learning environments in  2011 as well, including in the areas of corpo- rate compliance and corporate responsibility.      For Lufthansa, comprehensive training and continuing education  activities remain essential to secure the companys competitiveness  in the future as well. At the same time, the Group makes an important  contribution in this way to meeting its obligations as a socially respon- sible employer.   Given the importance of lifelong learning, Lufthansa will continue to  support its employees in gaining qualifications while working, based  on a wide-ranging continuing education offer.   The LHSBs topic of the year 2012 is Overcoming Boundaries. This  voluntary continuing education offer reflects the companys need to  come to terms with demographic developments in Germany. At the  same time, it aims at the employees individual flexibility and willing- ness to change.    Furthermore, the Lufthansa School of Business is planning to intensify  its cooperation with the Lufthansa Training & Conference Center  Seeheim, which is also headquarters of the LHSB. Job safety and health  protection   The companys health protection activities play a decisive role in guarding  against the specific stresses from the modern working world in a consistent  manner. Against this background, the Group companies organized again in  2011 a broad range of health measures, such as information and campaign  stands, presentations and trainings for the flying personnel and the staff on  the ground.   Furthermore, the Group further developed job safety on a continuous basis  and introduced Web-based trainings on job safety and health protection.   Redesign of the job safety trainings for future pursers and follow-up trainings  for the job safety commissioners.    Following the reactor accident at Fukushima, immediate measures were im- plemented by Group Job Safety to protect the flying personnel and the local  employees as well as the employees of Group companies sent abroad.   For concerned passengers and flight crews, Lufthansa provided the  possibility at Frankfurt Airport – at the recommendation of the Ministry for the  Environment of the state of Hessen – to have a voluntary exam for possible  exposure to radiation.      Comprehensive expansion of the focus topic Health Management for  all employee groups – Group-wide and differentiated by company.   Intensification of exchanges between Group airlines concerning the  topic of job safety.   Expansion of the Web-based training offers concerning job safety and  health protection.  Demographic change  Expansion of the steering committee and inclusion of the Group airlines  Focus on changed performance  Modernization of the corporate pension systems Diversity   With the focus topic Women the LHSB addressed the further develop- ment of equal opportunity in 2011 within the Group.   Special seminar offer on the subject of diversity    The Lufthansa Group has set itself the goal of increasing the share of  women in upper management by 30 percent by 2020 (growth rate Plus  30 percent)    Information stands on the topic of intercultural competency for flight  attendants  For further facts see on page 49.   Start of the Group-wide project Management Landscape 2020. Its  goal is to realize more flexibility and diversity at all management levels  and among junior staff members across the entire Lufthansa Group  (see on page 46).   Continuation of the seminar offer on the subject of diversity   Expansion of child day-care places to improve compatibility of work  and family    Specific support for intercultural competencies , including a Day of  Cultures, among other measures.   1st Lufthansa Day of Inclusion for employees with and without disabili- ties in March 2012.   The topic of the year 2012 of the LHSB is Overcoming Boundaries  (also see Continuing education / employability) Dialogue with employees   The Lufthansa Group organizes regular dialogue events to learn more  company-wide about the expectations, wishes and needs of employees  working in the cabin and on the ground in particular. Examples are  decentralized Town Meetings and employee events on specific topics. In  addition, the recurring employee survey Employee Feedback Manage- ment (EFM) serves as an important barometer of moods   Continuation of the employee dialogues   The employee survey Employee Feedback Management will take  place annually from 2012.  Dialogue with social  partners   The Lufthansa Group has been able to solve and successfully balance  competition-induced distribution conflicts by means of constructive  arbitration dialogues.   Lufthansa accompanied the elections of employee representatives for  the flying personnel and ensured a smooth process; in addition, the  company supported the employability and qualifications of the new  employee representatives.    Start of the dialogue on the need for changes at the company with  regard to expected deep-rooted structural changes within the industry.   Lufthansa intends to continue to defuse competition-induced distribu- tion conflicts by means of intensive dialogue and constructive solution  options in the future as well.   Continuation of the social dialogue based on partnership with regard  to the need to make operational changes at the company. Facts 2011 and outlook 2012 (selection)  a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 63 Climate and Environmental   Responsibility Biofuel Fuel efficiency Air traffic management Kerosene and emissions Emissions trading system Environmental management Research projects Noise emissions  a Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 64 Specific kerosene consumption:  Lufthansa Group sets new efficiency record  The specific kerosene consumption of the Lufthansa Group fleet continues to decline: After having  already reached the lowest level in the companys history in 2010 at 4.20 liters per 100 passenger  kilometers, it sank even further in 2011 – by 0.4 percent to 4.18 liters per 100 passenger kilome- ters. Concurrently, the specific CO2 emissions fell by 0.4 percent to 10.53 kilos per 100 passenger  kilometers.  Kerosene and emissions The reasons for the recent reductions of specific  kerosene consumption and emissions levels are  the continuous and intensive efforts to improve  fuel efficiency across the entire Group (see Fuel  efficiency at the Lufthansa Group – Cutting costs  and protecting the environment on page 70).  This positive effect is all the more remarkable, as  the Group-wide seat load factor decreased by 2.0  percentage points in 2011 to 77.6 percent. Among  the Group companies, SWISS and Austrian Airlines  were again able to lower their specific kerosene  consumption slightly to 3.72 liters and 4.18 liters  per 100 passenger kilometers respectively.  In absolute terms, the kerosene consumption of   all regular flights operated by the Group (which  means all scheduled and charter flights) increased  in 2011 by 6.7 percent to 9.024 million tonnes. At  the same time, the number of passenger kilome- ters increased by 8.3 percent, illustrating once  again the improvement in fuel efficiency that has  been achieved. This development also meant that  the Groups transport performance and its fuel  consumption in passenger transport were suc- cessfully decoupled further. The transport perfor- mance of the Lufthansa Group has grown by 328  percent since 1991, while kerosene consumption  and CO2 emissions have increased by 188 per- cent (see graph on page 65). Fuel dumps: Safety comes first To ensure the safety of passengers and crews,  fuel dumps under exceptional circumstances can- not be avoided. Given the high levels of techni- cal aircraft maintenance, they occur exceedingly  rarely at the Lufthansa Group. Yet no airline in  the world is entirely free of them. When pilots are  forced to make an unscheduled landing for tech- nical or medical reasons, they first need to empty  the fuel tanks until the aircrafts maximum permis- sible landing weight is reached. Fuel dumps affect  only long-haul flights. In 2011, there were 15 cases  of fuel dumps (see graph on page 65). Specific fuel consumption, passenger transportation  2011 Short-haul (16%) 7.30 l/100 pkm Medium-haul (26%) 4.52 l/100 pkm Long-haul (58%) 3.64 l/100 pkm Group fleet Average specific fuel consumption in l/100 pkm (center of circle) and shares of different traffic areas (segments) in total fuel consump- tion for passenger transportation. active fleet 2011 Definitions of traffic areas: Long-haul  more than 3,000 km Medium-haul 800 to 3,000 km Short-haul  less than 800 km 4.18 l/100 pkm SWISS Lufthansa German Airlines Short-haul (17%) 7.21 l/100 pkm Medium-haul (19%) 4.55 l/100 pkm Long-haul (64%) 3.80 l/100 pkm 4.27 l/100 pkm Short-haul (16%) 7.56 l/100 pkm Medium-haul (25%) 4.21 l/100 pkm Long-haul (59%) 3.15 l/100 pkm 3.72 l/100 pkm Austrian Airlines Short-haul (13%) 7.69 l/100 pkm Medium-haul (54%) 4.78 l/100 pkm Long-haul (33%) 3.02 l/100 pkm 4.18 l/100 pkm Germanwings Medium-haul (100%) 4.42 l/100 pkm 4.42 l/100 pkm Specific CO2 emissions, passenger transportation  active fleet in 2011; in kg/100 pkm Group fleet Lufthansa German Airlines Germanwings SWISS Austrian Airlines Long-haul 9.17 9.58 – 7.93 7.60 Medium-haul 11.39 11.46 11.14 10.60 12.04 Short-haul 18.39 18.18 – 19.05 19.38 Total averages 10.53 10.77 9.39 10.54  a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 65 Specific fuel consumption, passenger transportation in liters/100 passenger kilometers 2011 2010 change in %  Group fleet 4.18 4.20 – 0.4 Lufthansa German Airlines 4.27 4.25 + 0.5 Germanwings 4.42 -- -- SWISS 3.72 3.73 – 0.1 Austrian Airlines 4.18 4.21 – 0.6 300% 320% Decoupling of transport performance and fuel consumption Change compared to 1991 in percent, values for the fleet of the Lufthansa Group 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 120% 140% 160% 180% 200% 220% 240% 260% 92 91 93 94 96 95 97 98 00 99 01 02 04 03 05 06 07 08 09 +188 % +328 % Transport performance Efficiency gain Fuel consumption 280% 10 11 The Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental will help Lufthansa achieve further successes in the area of fuel efficiency.   This wide-body aircraft is 15 percent more fuel-efficient than its predecessor model, the Boeing 747-400. Fuel dumps 2011 changes compared to 2010 Events, total 15 – 7 thereof medical reasons 5 – 1            technical reasons 9 – 7            other reasons 1 + 1 Quantity, total 527 tonnes – 12.9 %  a Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 66 1  Actual fuel consumption in tonnes from flight operations, based on all flight events,   Recorded are consumption values from gate to gate, i.e. including taxiing on the ground  and holding patterns and detours in the air. 2  Scheduled flights, charter flights. 3  For the reporting year 2011, the following companies have been included in Balance:   Lufthansa German Airlines (including Lufthansa Italia and Lufthansa Regional: Lufthansa  CityLine, Air Dolomiti, Eurowings, Contact Air, Augsburg Airways), Lufthansa Cargo, SWISS  (including Edelweiss Air), Austrian Airlines and Germanwings, Excepted are third-party  services, as Lufthansa has no influence either on their performance or on the aircraft they  operate (see table Share of third parties). 4  Includes flights operated by airlines that do not belong to the Group, which carry out   services on Lufthansas behalf at short notice, e.g. in the event of capacity bottlenecks. 5  Ferry flights, special flights, training flights, test flights, aborted flights. 6  Absolute emissions in tonnes resulting from flight operations (all scheduled and charter flights).  Recorded are emission values from gate to gate, i.e. including taxiing on the ground and holding  patterns and detours in the air (see About this report - Methodology of calculations on page 5). 7  Excludes road feeder service and partial capacity chartered by Lufthansa Cargo, as no  fuel consumption and emissions values are available for this performance. 8  On the basis of freight tonne kilometers (FTKT), transported on both cargo and passenger aircraft. 9  Value corrected, due to a calculation error. Fuel consumption1 2011 (in tonnes) passengers freight total share Scheduled flights2, 3  Lufthansa  Germanwings SWISS Austrian Airlines Third parties4 4,951,029 237,486 990,674 598,287 157,067 1,797,786 865 350,565 96,979 18,211 6,748,815 238,351 1,341,239 695,266 9,023,671 175,278 (73.3 %) (2.6 %) (14.6 %) (7.5 %) (98.0 %) (1.9 %) Other flights5 11,681 (0.1 %) All flights 9,210,630 (100.0 %) Emissions3,6 2011 (in tonnes) passengers 2010 freight  2010 total  2010 CO2 21,349,054 (+ 7.8 %) 7,075,514 (+ 3.4 %) 28,424,568 (+ 6.7 %) NOX 100,103 (+ 9.7 %) 33,800 (+ 2.8 %) 133,903 (+ 7.9 %) CO 16,660 (+ 6.1 %) 3,492 (+ 3.7 %) 20,152 (+ 5.7 %) UHC 1,766 (+ 8.4 %) 487 (+ 3.2 %) 2,253 (+ 7.3 %) Share of third parties4 2011 Flights 3.7 % Passengers 3.0 % Tonne kilometers transported, TKT7 1.3 % Fuel consumption 1.9 % Carbon dioxide emissions 1.9 % 1.5 1.0 9.0 8.5 8.0 9.5 10.0 CO, g/100 pkm NOX, g/100 pkm CO2, kg/100 pkm UHC, g/100 pkm 10.5 11.0 11.5 07 08 09 06 05 04 03 02 01 10 11 11.73 11.39 10.88 11.00 11.08 11.05 10.88 10.93 54.8 53.3 51.0 50.6 50.8 50.5 49.8 50.6 1.6 1.3 1.1 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 10.1 9.7 8.8 8.5 8.4 8.4 8.6 8.5 10.84 50.0 0.9 8.5 10.58 48.89 8.49 0,99 8.2 49.4 10.53 0.9 50.0 49.0 51.0 52.0 53.0 54.0 Specific emissions, passenger transportation in kilograms, grams/100 passenger kilometers 48.0 0.2 0.3 0.24 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.23 0.29 0.30 0.30 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 08 09 0.29 10 11 0.29 Specific fuel consumption, freight transportation8 in liters/tonne kilometer 4.0 4.5 07 06 05 04 03 02 01 08 09 10 11 Specific fuel consumption, passenger transportation in liters/100 passenger kilometers 4.65 4.51 4.31 4.36 4.39 4.38 4.32 4.34 4.30 4.20 4.18 0.25 0.50 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 NOX, g/tkm CO2, kg/tkm CO, g/tkm 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 07 08 09 06 05 04 03 02 01 10 11 0.60 0.58 0.58 0.59 0.58 0.58 0.72 0.74 3.0 2.9 3.0 2.9 2.6 2.6 3.4 3.6 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.77 3.7 0.4 0.25 0.00 UHC, g/tkm 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.73 3.59 0.49 0.19 0.73 3.5 0.4 0.1 Specific emissions, freight transportation8 in kilograms, grams/tonne kilometer  a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 67 important research, because thus far little mean- ingful data could be generated regarding the  use of alternative fuels in aviation. Eight flights a day between Hamburg   and Frankfurt With this long-term trial, Lufthansa performed pio- neer work. From 15 July to 27 December 2011,  an Airbus A321 completed eight flights a day  between Hamburg and Frankfurt. One of the air- crafts two engines was operated with fuel con- taining up to 50 percent of biosynthetic kerosene  – the maximum mix permitted – produced by the  Finnish petroleum company Neste Oil. The other  engine was run on conventional kerosene, so that  a direct comparison was possible. The basis for  the alternative fuel was formed by the energy  plants Camelina (80 percent) and Jatropha (15  percent) along with animal fats (5 percent). The  aircraft was refueled exclusively in Hamburg, as  that location fulfilled the logistical requirements,  which included a suitable aboveground tank at  the port and two autonomous tanks at the airport.  On these 1,187 flights, the A321 consumed a  total of 1,557 tonnes of the biokerosene mix and,  according to initial calculations, emitted about  1,500 fewer tonnes of CO2. The scientific analyses  that are to follow up the long-term test will deter- mine the precise savings realized. What may look unspectacular at first sight is  in reality a huge step towards the future of  air transport. Advancing globalization and a  growing world population create ever-greater  demand for mobility. Demand that cannot be  satisfied long-term in environmentally compat- ible ways if the finite resources of fossil fuels  continue to be the only available option. This  makes the search for environmentally compat- ible alternatives one of the greatest challenges  of our times. Experts believe that biofuels have  a significant potential, especially in air transport.  Although the combustion of biofuel or conven- tional kerosene releases an identical amount of  CO2, biofuels significant advantage is linked to  the CO2 cycle. Plants absorb CO2 from the atmo- sphere by means of photosynthesis, which is  released back into the atmosphere during the  combustion process. Biofuel emits about 50  percent less CO2 than conventional fossil fuels.  Its use is, therefore, an element of air transports  established four-pillar strategy, aimed at reduc- ing net CO2 emissions by 50 percent by 2050,  compared with the year 2005.  The Lufthansa Group has tackled this task  squarely by testing biofuel in regular flight oper- ations for just under six months in the framework  of a project called burnFAIR. This is extremely  Long-term trial of biofuel – On track for the air transport of the future Lufthansa successfully concluded the trial use of biofuel in regular flight operations for just under   six months. In all, a total of 1,187 biofuel flights were operated between Hamburg and Frankfurt from   15 July to 27 December 2011. This long-term practical trial is now being followed up with a two-year   research phase to analyze the generated data and derive new insights. The Lufthansa Airbus A321 (registration D-AIDG) being refueled with a biokerosene mix.  a Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 68 For us pilots, the use of biofuel had no  influence on safe flight operations. On  the contrary, we conserved fuel during  this flight. Participating in this pioneer  project has really been a great experi- ence, and I hope that well be able to  fly regularly with biofuel very soon.  Daniel Riefer First Officer Boeing 747 and Project Manager   Aviation Biofuel, Deutsche Lufthansa AG burnFAIR has shown that we can fly  as reliably with biokerosene as with  conventional kerosene – and signifi- cantly reduce our emissions while do- ing so. Now the remaining challenge  is obtaining the necessary biomass in  sufficient quantities and in accordance  with our strict sustainability criteria, in  order to achieve the IATAs ambitious  goals for CO2 reduction.  Jan-Erik Kruse First Officer Airbus A320 and Project Manager  Aviation Biofuel, Deutsche Lufthansa AG Clean Tech Media Award: Sir Bob Geldof presents the special prize to Lufthansa (from left:   Joachim Buse, Vice President Aviation Biofuel at Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Dr. Joachim Szodruch,  former Chairman of DLR, Sir Bob Geldof, August Wilhelm Henningsen, Chairman of the Executive   Board at Lufthansa Technik AG). The biofuel trial was followed up on 12 January  2012 with the first transatlantic scheduled flight to  the United States. A Lufthansa Boeing 747-400 car- rying about 40 tonnes of biokerosene mix in its fuel  tanks flew from Frankfurt to Washington D.C. This  flight alone avoided estimated emissions of about  38 tonnes of CO2, equivalent to the CO2 emis- sions normally generated by six scheduled flights  between Frankfurt and Berlin. In September 2011,  Lufthansa received a special award for its burn- FAIR project in the context of the Clean Tech Media  Awards ceremonies.  The main goals of the long-term trial were to gain  experience in the use of biokerosene and to collect  long-term measuring data. At the same time, these  test flights enable experts to examine the effects of  biofuel on the environment and on the maintenance  and life span of aircraft engines. Our burnFAIR  project went off smoothly and to our fullest satisfac- tion. As expected, biofuel proved its worth in daily  operations, says Joachim Buse, Vice President Avi- ation Biofuel at Deutsche Lufthansa AG. Positive analysis results During the entire test phase of the project, both  flight crews and Lufthansa Technik carefully  observed the performance of engines and air- craft – and detected no abnormalities. In addi- tion, scientists at the German Aerospace Cen- ters Institute for Combustion Technology (DLR)  analyzed the emissions in the engines exhaust.  To do so, they positioned a probe behind each  engine of the Lufthansa Airbus A321 (registra- tion D-AIDG) and fed the exhaust gases through  a pipe to the analysis instruments. The result: The  DLR experts measured similar nitrogen oxide and  carbon monoxide values in the exhausts of the  two engines. Once the test flights were concluded, an ini- tial analysis of the aircraft components was car- ried out. Detailed checks of both fuel tanks for  deposits and changes in the seals yielded posi- tive results. The experts examined tank struc- ture, fuel lines, connections and other elements  of each tank for damage and corrosion, and the  seals for wear. In the examined areas, the experts  found no deposits. The entire tank was in very  good condition, with no negative findings. The  same was true for the fuel lines between tank and  engine. The equipment demonstrated normal  reactions with regard to function and tightness.  a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 69 The engine run on the alternative fuel also  showed no particularities compared with its con- ventionally powered counterpart. Its fuel flow rate,  however, was about 1 percent below that of the  engine fueled by normal kerosene. Hence the  engine burning biokerosene consumed less fuel  overall, which is attributable to the fact that the  energy density of the biosynthetic fuel was about  1 percent higher on average than that of the con- ventional kerosene. On the whole, the energy effi- ciency of the engines thus remained unchanged. Another important aspect to be investigated was  the fuel quality during storage in the above ground  tank in Hamburg. This analysis confirmed that  the fuels characteristics did not change over  this time period. In particular, no separation of  the pure biosynthetic kerosene from the conven- tional kerosene in the blend was observed, nor  was there a significant presence of microbes.  The product was storage stable and there was  no loss of quality, emphasizes Dr. Alexander  Zschocke, Senior Manager Aviation Biofuel at  Deutsche Lufthansa AG.  Comprehensive communications Lufthansa has informed its stakeholders and the  public extensively about the goals and progress  of this long-term test, through measures includ- ing a flyer for customers, videos, expert presen- tations to visitor groups, stands at numerous  trade fairs, and dialogue events. More detailed  information on the topic and the practical trial is  provided by the Internet page dedicated to bio- fuel www.puresky.de. The Group has also set up  a specific area on its internal eTeaming platform  to inform its employees about the project. In addition, an online survey was carried out  among Lufthansa Miles & More customers follow- ing the conclusion of the test phase. It focused  on questions concerning knowledge of, attitudes  toward and evaluation of the topic of biokero- sene. While the majority of the 532 interview par- ticipants rated Lufthansas activities in the area  of alternative fuels as positive, only every third  respondent saw this as a measure with positive  effects on climate protection. Individual com- ments also indicated that participants reject the  potential use of food stuffs to produce such fuels.  This is precisely one of the basic conditions that  Lufthansa too has always placed on biokerosene:  no competition with food production. Beyond that,  biofuels must be produced and certified accord- ing to sustainability criteria, generate a definite  environmental utility and be available in sufficient  Facts on the biofuel test at a glance  Test period: 15 July to 27 December 2011  Type of aircraft: Airbus A321   Eight flights daily between Frankfurt   and Hamburg   Share of biofuel: 50 percent fed to one engine  1,187 scheduled flights with biokerosene   Biofuel blend consumed: 1,557 tonnes quantities and at acceptable prices. Over the  years ahead, therefore, the focus will be on suit- ability, availability, sustainability and certification  of raw materials. However, this market must first  be opened up. Further commitments of the Lufthansa Group Lufthansa joined forces with leading German  research institutions, other aviation companies  and bioenergy producers to found the initia- tive Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy in  Germany (aireg) on 8 June 2011 in Berlin. Its  goal is to support the development and introduc- tion of renewable fuels for aviation in Germany  and to provide information about the demand,  origin, availability and use of these fuels. Through  their commitment, the initiatives members aim  at creating a sound basis for political decisions  related to the introduction of climate-friendly avia- tion fuels. Besides aireg, the Lufthansa Group is active in  the following initiatives:  Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group (SAFUG)  Roundtable on Sustainable Biofuels (RSB)   European Algae Biomass Association (EABA) In addition, Deutsche Lufthansa AG cooperates  with Leuphana University Lneburg and INOCAS  GmbH. These joint efforts aim at using the uni- versitys research results to develop practice-ori- ented concepts for the sustainable and competi- tive production of raw materials for the production  of biokerosene. For further information visit www.puresky.de  a Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 70 Fuel efficiency at the Lufthansa Group – Cutting costs and protecting the environment Using fuel as efficiently as possible in flight operations is one of the central objectives of the Lufthansa   Group. The activities in this area interlink ecological and economic necessities: The more the air- line reduces its kerosene consumption, the greater the positive environmental effects and the cost  savings. The aviation industry has taken on a big job in  terms of climate protection and set itself ambi- tious goals. It plans to improve average fuel  efficiency by 1.5 percent per year up to 2020  and thus to slow down the increase in CO2  emissions accordingly. From 2020, CO2-neutral  growth should then be achieved. In the long  term, aviations net CO2 emissions are to be  reduced by half by 2050, compared with 2005.  The basis for realizing climate-neutral growth  by 2020 is the industrys established four-pil- lar strategy, which interlinks an array of diverse  environmental measures (see illustration on  page 71). Its scope comprises technical prog- ress, improved infrastructure, operational mea- sures and economic measures. Project Fuel Efficiency – Progress and   activities 2011 In October 2009, Lufthansa German Airlines  launched the project Fuel Efficiency in an effort  to reduce kerosene consumption in flight opera- tions and thus to lower costs sustainably in times  of continuously increasing fuel prices. Fuel effi- ciency is a very important part of our strategy,  emphasizes Jrgen Starck, Project Manager Fuel  Efficiency at Deutsche Lufthansa AG until the end  of March 2012. The ratio specific fuel consump- tion was the first non-monetary variable to be  included in the process of operating Group plan- ning, a fact that underlines the importance of fuel  efficiency as an issue.  Lufthansa German Airlines In 2011, Lufthansa German Airlines chiefly con- centrated on reducing the weight of its aircraft  further, advancing measures related to air traffic  control in cooperation with DFS Deutsche Flug- sicherung and Eurocontrol, and optimizing pro- cedures in flight operations. In addition, certain  technical measures and adaptations in the area  network / ground yielded further fuel savings. Reducing aircraft weight For example, following comprehensive test runs,  Lufthansa German Airlines in cooperation with  Lufthansa Cargo will use a lightweight container  that saves 14 kilos per unit when compared with  previous models (see sections on Lufthansa  Cargo in this article). Another 230 kilos can be  saved on Airbus A340-300s by removing extra  tanks that are not needed for the route distances  flown by Lufthansa. In addition, the removal of  an unused towing fitting on the nose gear of the  A340-300 reduces the aircrafts weight further.  One kilo less on all aircraft of Lufthansa German  Airlines saves 30 tonnes of kerosene per year,  according to the latest calculations.   Reducing emissions in sync The UN aviation organization ICAO and the world  airline association IATA are committed to ambitious goals for reducing CO2 emissions. Target 2050 -50 percent CO2  a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 71 Network / Ground On the ground, Lufthansa always aims at avoid- ing long taxiing times during phases with high  traffic volumes. For example, in coordination with  network management, the company brought for- ward its flight from Philadelphia to Frankfurt by   45 minutes to shorten the taxiing time. The pay- off: the engine running time on the ground was  shortened by 18 minutes. Flight operations / Air traffic management  In the Gulf region, on the routes Riyadh to Doha  and Riyadh to Muscat, Lufthansa pilots can  now request new and up to 15 minutes shorter  routings and thus save up to 2 tonnes of fuel  per flight. Between Hamburg and Munich, the  removal of certain altitude restrictions by DFS  Deutsche Flugsicherung means that flights  can now be operated higher and fuel can thus  be conserved. In close cooperation with DFS,  Lufthansa CityLine has also optimized its flight  routings and now includes partly restricted  areas in its flight planning.  Technical optimizations At the technical level, for example, small but  effective changes on the Boeing 737s landing  flaps lead to improved aerodynamics. As a result,  fuel can be conserved during a flights climbing  and cruising phases. Lufthansa has fully refitted  two aircraft as part of a trial to obtain reference  data. Fuel Reporter provides an overview Furthermore, Lufthansa has developed Fuel  Reporter, a software that analyzes the influ- ences of different parameters on fuel consump- tion and automatically generates relevant ratios  and reports. In this way, a long-term standard is  applied for data, formulas and reports. The pro- gram uses data from flight operations that previ- ously had to be collated manually. It saves time  and allows more detailed, more frequent analy- ses. This application makes it possible to obtain  important data at a glance. Another advantage of Fuel Reporter is that trends  in fuel consumption and the parameters that influ- ence it can be detected early on – enabling the  experts to react more quickly. In addition, they  can track the effects of newly introduced con- servation measures more readily. Currently,  Lufthansa German Airlines and the regional air- lines are already working with Fuel Reporter.  Other Group airlines are planning to introduce   the software.  Four pillars for climate protection   Innovation in aircraft   and engine technologies  Alternative fuels 1. Technological progress  Improved use of airspace   Airport infrastructures   adapted  to needs 2. Improved infrastructure  More efficient aircraft sizes    Optimal flight routes and  speeds   Optimized processes on   the ground 3. Operational measures   A global, sensibly designed,  market-based system for re- ducing emissions to comple- ment the other three pillars 4. Economic measures The optimization of flight routings is one of many measures   in the area of Fuel Efficiency.  a Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 72 SWISS SWISS already operates one of the most fuel- efficient fleets in the industry. Independently of  that fact, the experts at this Lufthansa Group  company continue to identify and realize further  kerosene conservation potentials. For example,  SWISS pilots are encouraged to exit the runway  after landing with only one engine running when- ever the situation allows. This single engine taxi- ing helps avoid an estimated 1,500 tonnes of  CO2 per year. Beyond that, all of the airlines pilots  received the brochure Best Practice in Fuel  Management. In the framework of the Single  European Sky ATM Research Program (SESAR),  SWISS developed a new approach procedure  in cooperation with the air traffic control author- ity Skyguide and Flughafen Zrich AG at Zurich  Airport. Called Greener Wave, it helps man- age more effectively the first flight bank in the  early morning hours. The assigning of defined  time slots has replaced the previously used prin- ciple of first to arrive, first to land. The flights  optimized and the holding patterns averted in  this manner mean that emissions of up to 1,800  tonnes of CO2 per year can be avoided. A video  about the new approach procedure Greener  Wave is available at  www.swiss.com SWISS WorldCargo, the freight division of SWISS,  will also replace its aluminum containers with  a lighter version by 2015. The weight reduction  realized in this manner lowers not only costs but  also fuel consumption and emissions. Austrian Airlines In 2011, Austrian Airlines also implemented  numerous measures to reduce the weight aboard  its aircraft. This included the installation of new,  lighter seats on the aircraft of its Airbus A320 and  Boeing 737 fleets. As a result, the weight per seat  declined by 1.5 to 5 kilos and the annual fuel  consumption by 1,650 tonnes of kerosene. The  airline has achieved a further weight reduction  by reducing the fuel reserves for each flight to an  appropriate level. And on long-haul routes, opti- mum loading of aircraft helps conserve kerosene. Furthermore, Austrian Airlines had winglets  installed at the wingtips of its Boeing 767s. This  step alone helps avoid 8,800 tonnes of CO2  emissions per year. Lufthansa Systems More entertainment, less weight Lufthansa Systems sets a new standard with  its wireless in-flight entertainment solution (IFE)  BoardConnect. Designed as intranet aboard the  aircraft, the new solution uses a radio network in  accordance with the established WiFi standard to  replace the costly, weighty wiring of each individ- ual seat. Its key elements are a server and sev- eral access points throughout the cabin. Passen- gers access the servers contents via their own  laptops, smartphones and tablet PCs. Alternatives  are WiFi-based fitted screens or mobile devices  that the airlines provide for their passengers.  Avoiding many kilometers of cabling and other  types of equipment implies a significant weight  reduction. In the case of an Airbus A340-600  with 380 seats, this amounts to about 900 kilos,  which corresponds to a fuel savings of 47 tonnes  per aircraft and year. The savings becomes even  bigger when no screens are installed in the seat  backs of certain subfleets. Airlines also avoid sig- nificant installation and maintenance costs, and  they benefit from the added revenue potential  of electronic sales onboard. This makes Board- Connect a classic example of how ecological  and economic interests can be meaningfully  interlinked. Electronic Flight Bags ease environmental  burdens More and more airlines worldwide are introducing  Electronic Flight Bags (EFB). These electronic  pilots cases largely replace printed route maps,  briefing documents and technical manuals in the  cockpit. With Lido/FlightBag Lufthansa Systems  offers one of the leading EFB solutions in the  market. EFBs offer a number of important advan- tages: By avoiding heavy manuals, they save air- lines weight and thus fuel in everyday operations.  They are up-to-date at all times because they  are always fed with the latest data before take- off. Most importantly, they do away with the need  for the regular printing and distributing of paper  documents to each aircraft in the fleet. In this way,  paper consumption is also significantly reduced.  a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 73 Lufthansa Cargo Lufthansa Cargo has introduced its own internal  Fuel Efficiency program, comprising 52 points to  reduce the Cargo fleets kerosene consumption.  Even before an aircraft takes off, the most diverse  measures take place on the ground to help save  fuel. This includes regular engine washes and air- craft loading that takes into account the optimum  center of gravity. The latest weather data and  maps also facilitate fuel management as well as  the planning of optimized flight procedures, vari- able speeds and altitudes. In addition, Lufthansa Cargo has tightened the  control of aircraft weight in the framework of a  Weight Watchers program. For example, the air- line operates four MD-11Fs that were converted  from passenger to freight aircraft some time ago.  The company recently removed the telephone  equipment that is no longer needed on these  freighters. Merely taking a telephone receiver  weighing 350 grams off the aircraft yields a total  savings of 3.5 tonnes of kerosene per year. This  example shows how quickly grams can turn into  tonnes, given about 15,000 to 16,000 flights per  year, says Wolfgang Raebiger, Director of Flight  Operations at Lufthansa Cargo AG.  Water reserves reduced Furthermore, Lufthansa Cargo reduced the pre- viously ample water reserves of the onboard  toilet by 80 percent, which means that the  engines of the cargo fleet now burn about  1,300 fewer tonnes of kerosene per year. Simi- larly, the extra fuel reserves ordered by the  pilots were significantly reduced compared with  2005, from previously 2.7 tonnes per flight on  average to currently 1.4 tonnes. An analysis of  consumption data from 2009 to 2010 showed  that 97.2 percent of all cargo flights reached  their destinations without using a drop of extra  fuel. In the final analysis, pilots need to use  their own judgment concerning the quantities  of extra fuel for a specific flight. Safety has the  unequivocal priority here, emphasizes Wolf- gang Raebiger. In addition, by 2015 Lufthansa Cargo will replace  5,000 of the currently used standard aluminum   containers, weighing 80 kilos a piece, with  lighter containers featuring side walls that are  partly made of honeycombed polypropylene.  The weight savings of these lower-deck contain- ers, which are used to transport passenger bag- gage and freight shipments, comes to almost  19 percent. Comprehensive tests between 2008  and 2011 also showed that the use of these  alternative materials entails fewer repairs. Calcu- lated to the movements of all Lufthansa aircraft,  replacing the container fleet will result in a total  savings of about 2,180 tonnes of kerosene and  thus about 6,800 tonnes of CO2 per year. Once  this switch is accomplished, Lufthansa and the  other Group companies will together operate  one of the worlds largest lightweight container  fleets. More efficient engines and   aerodynamic wings In the air, developments such as more efficient  engines, aerodynamic wings, nanotechnology in  aircraft paint and new composite materials help  ensure that the aircraft of Lufthansa Cargo con- sume as little kerosene as possible. At the same  time, the pilots of the air freight service provider  learn kerosene-conserving flying as early as dur- ing their initial training. These techniques include  the Continuous Descent Approach (CDA), which  means continuously decreasing altitude flown  at reduced engine thrust. The pilots can also  reduce fuel consumption by the optimized use of  flap settings during approach and the intelligent  deployment of thrust reversal. The new lightweight container of Jettainer GmbH,   a subsidiary of Lufthansa Cargo  a Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 74 6,800 t CO2/p.a. Kerosene 0.75 % Kerosene 50–150 kg per approach Instrument Landing System (ILS) CDA Environmental measures: Efficient at all levels The companies of the Lufthansa Group strive continuously to reduce the environmental effects of their business  activities. Through the example of Lufthansa Cargo, the following infographic shows the highly complex and di- verse activities and the many savings achieved to steadily improve the environmental balance sheet in the air  and on the ground. Source: Lufthansa Cargo AG Fuel management Due to various restrictions it is often impossible to plan the  shortest possible paths as flight routes. En route, however, the  pilots can negotiate shortcuts with air traffic controllers and  thus save kerosene. Flight altitude / Aerodynamic drag Lufthansa Cargo pilots constantly optimize the vertical flight  profile in collaboration with air traffic control in order to utilize  favorable winds and reduce aerodynamic drag. Weight and balance Lufthansa Cargo experts on the ground ensure that the  freighters are loaded in exactly such a way that they have an  optimal center of gravity and thus save kerosene in flight. Lightweight containers Engine wash Optimized fuel consumption On the ground During the flight Continuous Descent Approach (CDA) This glide slope approach enables reduced engine power,  thus lowering kerosene consumption and CO2 emissions. Flap position and thrust reversal Through optimized flap positioning the pilots can save  kerosene during approach, and the meaningful use of thrust  reversal additionally reduces fuel consumption. Efficient, quiet engines Winglets lower kerosene  consumption during flight, Less paper cockpit, a Lufthansa  Cargo project for weight optimization  a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 75 Air traffic management – The Single European Sky is taking shape The largest climate protection project in European civil aviation is the creation of a single airspace above  Europe. This initiative makes growing air traffic not only more environmentally friendly, but also safer  and more cost effective. To make the Single European Sky (SES) a reality by 2020, the EU Commission  and the European air traffic control authority Eurocontrol launched the Single European Sky ATM   Research Program (SESAR).  SESARs framework serves to standardize  Europes air traffic management (ATM) by means  of new technologies, procedures and standards  (for additional information see Balance 2011, Air  traffic management – Towards a unified Euro- pean airspace, page 74). The most important  authority during the development phase is the  SESAR Joint Undertaking (SJU). SESAR is organized into three phases: defini- tion, development and implementation. Dur- ing the definition phase, which was concluded  in 2008, the participants drew up a European  ATM master plan. Lufthansa has participated  actively in its update, which is to be published  in 2012. The second phase, which will con- tinue until 2016 under the SJUs responsibility,  includes all research and development activities  to prepare the implementation of the introduc- tory package previously defined in the master  plan. Altogether, 21 task packages with currently  more than 300 individual projects must be com- pleted. In 2012, the project partners also began  to pave the way for SESARs deployment phase.  Lufthansa is represented in both the steering and  the expert groups, which identify and implement  the initial measures. At the same time, the experts  are working to develop a long-term deployment  management.  Active contribution by the Lufthansa Group  companies Currently, Lufthansa takes an active part in more  than 50 SESAR projects. In coordination with the  SJU, the aviation company concentrates primarily  on those tasks where its experience and exper- tise can provide the greatest utility for the SESAR  program. The experts of Lufthansa, SWISS, Aus- trian Airlines, Brussels Airlines, Germanwings,  Lufthansa Cargo and Lufthansa Systems apply  their know-how from a broad range of special- ized areas – such as route planning, operations  control centers for air and ground, cockpit crews,  training departments, information technology and  finances. In 2011, for example, controlled times of arrival  (CTA) were tested. For flights to Stockholm,  Swedish air traffic controllers gave Lufthansa  crews a target time by which a certain point in  the approach phase had to be reached. Then the  Airbus aircraft automatically calculated the most  efficient route and flew accordingly. The insights  gained in this project are being fed into further  simulations and tests planned for 2012 and 2013. SESAR demonstrations and AIRE Beyond the SESAR research program, the SJU  also supports test projects that allow immedi- ate ecological improvements. This includes the  program AIRE (Atlantic Interoperability Initiative  to Reduce Emissions) and new demonstrations  that incorporate optimization proposals devel- oped in the framework of SESAR into current  operations. From 2010 to 2011 the Group con- cluded four projects (AIRE 2) successfully. For  a detailed project description see Balance 2011,  Air traffic management – Towards a unified Euro- pean airspace, on page 74 as well as the final  reports at www.sesarju.eu/environment/aire   In 2012, Lufthansa applied with three initiatives  for renewed participation in test projects running  until 2014 (AIRE 3 and SESAR Solution Dem- onstrations), two of which were approved on   29 March 2012.  The first initiative is Free Route, a project of  DFS Deutsche Flugsicherung and Eurocontrol in  cooperation with Lufthansa. It strives to shorten  routings above Germany and the Benelux coun- tries as much as possible – and this right across  national boundaries in the spirit of the Single  European Sky.  The second initiative concerns the trial use of tar- get times for entering specific airspace or initiat- ing the approach phase to an airport, instead of  the exactly defined departure times that are cur- rently standard practice. The advantage: traffic  can be planned better and unnecessary holding  patterns can be avoided. Joining this project are  not only the two Group companies SWISS and   a Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 76 In the context of the SESAR program,  we will be taking over a significant part  of the development of an IT solution  for the optimization of flight routings.  Our goal is to define future systems  and technologies and to have a proto- type developed and validated by proj- ect end. Urban Weihaar Team Leader Product Development Lido/Flight   Lufthansa Systems Lufthansa German Airlines, but also Air France- KLM, the French air traffic control authority DSNA,  DFS and the Swiss air traffic control authority  Skyguide. Beyond that, Airbus is planning to give  the project its technical support. Lufthansa Systems supports the SES Since June 2011, Lufthansa Systems has col- laborated on the necessary route planning for  a future Flight and Wing Operations Center in  the context of SESAR task package 11 Flight  and Wing Operations Center / Meteorologi- cal Services. In this way, the Lufthansa subsid- iary takes a leading role as an innovation driver  in the research and development for a unified  European airspace. Work for the task pack- age was awarded to the IT service provider in a  consortium with Airbus, Honeywell, Sabre and  Cassidian. Together with Sabre, Lufthansa Systems is devel- oping the system requirements to optimize the  four-dimensional flight path that allows the cal- culation of the optimal position in a unified air- space at any given time. Airbus is responsible for  the projects overall coordination, while Cassidian  compiles the requirements concerning the mili- tary use of airspace and Honeywell coordinates  the issues related to business aviation. In the  context of the SESAR program, we will be taking  over a significant part of the development of an  IT solution for the optimization of flight routings,  reports Urban Weihaar, Team Leader Product  Development Lido/Flight at Lufthansa Systems.  Our goal is to define future systems and tech- nologies and to have developed and validated  a prototype by project end. Although it will take  another five years to get there, this will be a mile- stone on the path toward a more efficient, punc- tual and environmentally friendly form of air trans- port in Europe. Emissions trading system –  Shared global solution wanted Air transport has been included in the EUs emissions trading scheme since 1 January 2012. Since   then, more than 4,000 aircraft operators from over 150 countries have been obliged to provide an  emissions permit for each tonne of carbon dioxide emitted. There are a few exceptions that dispense  some air transport companies from participating in the EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS). In principle, all aircraft operators who land or take  off in Europe are subject to the emissions trad- ing system. Exempted are certain types of flights  – such as customs, military, rescue or training  flights – and small airlines with a low number of  flights (up to two flights a day on average) or with  annual emissions under 10,000 tonnes of CO2.  Every airline obligated to participate in the emis- sions trading system has a limited quantity of  emissions allowances at its disposal, as was pre- viously defined by the EU. Emissions surpass- ing this allotment have to be covered by the pur- chase of additional certificates. The basis for these allowances is air transports  average emissions per year for the period from  2004 to 2006. In 2012, airlines receive certificates  covering 97 percent of this base value, in the  years up to 2020 only 95 percent. Of these allot- ments, 85 percent of the certificates are free of  charge, the remaining 15 percent are auctioned  by the EU member states. Each air transport   a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 77 operators specific share in the total emissions  certificates allotted free of charge is calculated by  comparing the respective Europe-wide transport  performance of the individual air transport opera- tors in 2010 (the benchmark year).  As the Lufthansa Group has expanded signifi- cantly in recent years, the company expects that  it will have to acquire certificates for about 30  percent of its CO2 emissions in 2012. The EU hopes that the emissions trading scheme  will give airlines an added incentive to operate  fuel-efficient aircraft and technologies in order to  keep CO2 emissions as low as possible. From the  perspective of Lufthansa and the airline indus- try, an incentive to conserve kerosene is already  provided by the high fuel prices alone. Fuel con- sumption constituted more than 20 percent of the  Lufthansa Groups operating costs in 2011. Addi- tional effective climate protection that works with- out distorting competition can only be reached  by means of a global agreement that includes all  important air transport nations. Lufthansa will con- tinue to cooperate in constructive ways to find a  solution that is acceptable worldwide. Until then,  however, the EU Emissions Trading System must  be suspended if we are to achieve the goal of  the world aviation organization ICAO in the near  future, explains Thomas Kropp, Senior Vice Presi- dent, Head of Corporate International Relations and  Government Affairs at Deutsche Lufthansa AG. Vehement international resistance   The European Court of Justice (ECJ) ruled on  21 December 2011 that the EU Emissions Trad- ing System is lawful and thus dismissed a lawsuit  brought by U.S. airlines and the American air- line association A4A (formerly ATA). Despite this,  vehement resistance against the European solo  effort has developed in the meantime. At the end  of 2011, the council of the International Civil Avia- tion Organization (ICAO) demanded with 26 of 36  votes that the EU respect the principles applied  in civil aviation and refrain from applying EU law  outside of its territory and to non-European air- lines respectively. This demand was supported  by all important trading partners of the EU, includ- ing Russia, India, China and the United States. At a conference in Moscow, the representatives  of 23 non-EU nations adopted a declaration on  22 February 2012 to protest against the EU emis- sions trading scheme. At the same time, they  threatened severe retaliatory measures. Euro- pean airlines would have to expect restrictions  in overflight rights, additional charges or even  the withdrawal of landing rights. Shortly after the  signing of this declaration, China suspended an  order of Airbus aircraft for the time being. Further- more, non-European airlines are to be forbidden  from participating in the emissions trading system  through legal regulations. In the United States, a  bill to this end passed the House of Represen- tatives in October 2011. The Chinese and Indian  aviation authorities have already prohibited their  countries airlines from participating. In a letter sent in March 2012 to the heads of   government of Germany, France, Spain and Great  Britain, aircraft manufacturer Airbus, Lufthansa  and other large European airlines again urgently  pointed out that European aviation compa- nies have been threatened with possible retalia- tory measures as a result of the EU ETS, that the  announced threats are now being carried out  and that they are already manifesting themselves  in concrete punitive measures. To avoid a major  trade conflict at the expense of the European  economy in general and the European air trans- port industry in particular, the heads of European  governments were urgently requested to work for  a swift and balanced solution of this conflict. The ICAO might be able to open a way out of this  conflict. This United Nations special organization  is working on developing an appropriate pro- posal by the end of 2012. The ICAO, in coopera- tion with the EU, must find a global solution that  is in the interest of both the environment and fair  competition. However, the EU has indicated no  willingness thus far to tackle the looming compet- itive distortions. Therefore, we fear massive disad- vantages for the European airlines, says Thomas  Kropp. The ICAO, in cooperation with the  EU, must find a global solution that  is in the interest of both the environ- ment and fair competition. However,  the EU has indicated no willingness  thus far to tackle the looming com- petitive distortions. Therefore, we fear  massive disadvantages for the Euro- pean airlines. Thomas Kropp Senior Vice President, Head of Corporate International   Relations and Government Affairs, Deutsche Lufthansa AG  a Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 78 The Lufthansa Group is prepared for   emissions trading Independently of the dispute at the political level,  the Lufthansa Group fulfills the obligations arising  from the emissions trading system and acquires  the required certificates. At the same time, the  company draws attention to the problems and  points out the effects on the company and the  entire European airline industry. To meet the offi- cial requirements, the Group set up a dedicated  project team and spent months preparing for  emissions trading. Ten companies with flight operations in the   Lufthansa Group participate in the EU ETS. They  have to report to five different national authorities  (Germany, Great Britain, Italy, Austria and Spain).  The related company-internal processes are inte- grated into the central fuel purchasing or kero- sene hedging function. In addition, each com- pany has a department or person in charge of  the associated reporting and monitoring. In 2012  alone, the Group expects additional costs from  the emissions trading scheme of about 100 mil- lion euros. At the moment, this expenditure is not  yet very high as certificate prices are still low. But  it is foreseeable that costs will increase in the  future, as traffic growth and thus certificate prices  are set to rise. When buying tickets, Lufthansa  customers already pay related charges, aimed at  compensating for the additional costs caused by  the EU ETS. Other airlines have not yet included  these costs, which further distorts competition. The demand: An effective, competition-  neutral global system  At the moment, the European airlines are doubly  disadvantaged: They have to bear the costs from  the emissions trading system and fear sanctions  from third countries. In Germany and other EU  countries such as Great Britain and France, there  are further significant costs from national ticket  taxes. The airlines are increasingly becoming the  plaything of politics as retaliatory measures by  third countries are aimed at the European airlines  and not against the EU countries themselves. In the opinion of the Lufthansa Group, a solution  can only be found by means of negotiations, an  area where the ICAO is very active already. With a  global problem such as climate change, regional  solo efforts are not helpful; a sensibly designed  system for the reduction of emissions applies  economic measures worldwide. By including all  countries and airlines, it ensures neutral and fair  competition. The aviation company also hopes  that the German government will fulfill the pledge  expressed in its coalition contract. There, the gov- ernment states: In the context of introducing the  emissions trading system for aviation, we want to  ensure competitive neutrality. Lufthansa is already working to concretize a gen- erally acceptable solution in a number of Euro- pean and international working groups, such as  those of the industry associations IATA (Interna- tional Air Transport Association) and AEA (Asso- ciation of European Airlines). Such a solution  must fulfill five core principles in the view of the  aviation group: A global system must be cost- effective. And it must guarantee a reduction of  CO2 emissions – without discriminating. Further- more, the organizers must ensure the systems  integrity by means of continuous monitoring and  reliable reporting. In addition, emissions must  not be counted more than once. Finally, the obli- gations of each air transport operator must be  determined on the basis of its current emissions.  If integrated into the aviation industrys estab- lished four-pillar strategy for climate protection  (see graph on page 71), a sensibly designed,  market-based system for emissions reduction  can do its part in realizing two of the industrys  key goals: a climate-neutral growth from 2020  and a 50-percent reduction of air transports net  CO2 emissions by 2050 compared with 2005.  a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 79 Environmental management Concepts and strategies for environmental care With the strategic environmental program introduced in 2008, Lufthansa defined its Group-wide goals  and perspectives for environmental and climate protection until 2020. One of these goals is to further  expand and strengthen environmental management at the Group level and at the Group companies.  This is the responsibility of the department Group Environmental Issues, which coordinates the frame- work, strategy and activities related to the environment for the entire Lufthansa Group. The concept of environmental care has been  firmly established at the company for many years.  At the aviation group, all companies with envi- ronmental relevance have their own environmen- tal department, an environmental commissioner  or at least a contact partner for these issues. All  environmental experts meet twice a year at the  Environmental Forum to exchange experiences  and to coordinate new strategies, measures and  processes. The participants discuss in detail  planned legal regulations, such as the planned  expansion of the EU chemicals regulations  REACH or the challenges of implementing the  directive on the EU Emissions Trading System.  The Environmental Forum is the ideal platform  for dealing with all environment-related questions  at the content level while simultaneously involv- ing all companies and corporate areas in the dis- cussion. This expert round established itself long  since as an important coordination and steering  instrument, says Jan-Ole Jacobs, Manager Group  Environ mental Issues at Deutsche Lufthansa AG  and organizer of the Environmental Forum.  In the framework of this expert round, two work- ing groups have been discussing subjects that  are highly relevant for the entire company since  2010. One team, for example, has been devel- oping standardized ratios that make the environ- mental activities across the Group measurable  and comparable. In 2011, the focus was primar- ily on defining and differentiating these important  ratios and clearing up organizational questions  in the run-up to the systems introduction. At the  same time, the experts developed clear guide- lines and responsibilities for the generation, vali- dation and storage of these data.  The second group has been working on the nec- essary conditions for the implementation of a  Group-wide environmental management sys- tem. In 2011, the team compiled further experi- ences made by the individual Lufthansa compa- nies while establishing their own environmental  management systems. As a next step, the experts  are to develop guidelines that will give all busi- ness segments and company areas a means of  orientation.   The following examples provide representa- tive information about activities at selected  Group companies in the area of environmental  management.  Lufthansa German Airlines   During the reporting year, Lufthansa German Air- lines chiefly concentrated on developing further  measures in the context of its Fuel Efficiency  project (see Fuel efficiency at the Lufthansa  Group – Cutting costs and protecting the envi- ronment on page 70).   At the same time, this Group company success- fully concluded a long-term trial of biofuel in  scheduled flight operations (see Long-term trial  of biofuel – On track for the air transport of the  future on page 67).    The airline continues to work actively on the intro- duction of the Single European Sky (see Air traffic  management – The Single European Sky is taking  shape on page 75).  The Environmental Forum is the  ideal platform for dealing with all  environment-related questions of  all companies and corporate areas.  This expert round established itself   long since as an important coordina- tion and steering instrument for envi- ronment-related questions.  Jan-Ole Jacobs Manager Group Environ mental Issues Deutsche Lufthansa AG   a Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 80 Lufthansa CityLine   In 2012, the environmental management sys- tem of Lufthansa CityLine was again recertified  according to the internationally accepted envi- ronmental standard ISO 14001 and the Euro- pean eco-audit regulation EMAS.   This Lufthansa subsidiary is currently prepar- ing the latest issue of its Environmental Report,  which will be published in 2012.    One of the main activities in 2011 was the reduc- tion of energy consumption at the aircraft han- gar. Among other measures, the company  installed a photovoltaic system on the buildings  roof (see Photovoltaic system on CityLine han- gar on page 83). SWISS and Austrian Airlines   In 2011, both SWISS and Austrian Airlines took  an active part in the project Fuel Efficiency at  the Lufthansa Group and implemented numer- ous measures to improve fuel efficiency in their  flight operations further (see Fuel efficiency at  the Lufthansa Group – Cutting costs and protect- ing the environment on page 70). Lufthansa Cargo   In December 2011, Lufthansa Cargo passed the  recertification of its environmental management  system in accordance with ISO 14001 at all   German stations. In particular, the external  experts noted positively the many Fuel Efficiency  measures aimed at reducing kerosene con- sumption (see Fuel efficiency at the Lufthansa  Group – Cutting costs and protecting the envi- ronment on page 70). The same applied to the  new lighting systems and forklifts, which ensure  resource efficiency on the ground. The experts  did not record any deviations from the standards.  Were pleased that the certification of our envi- ronmental management system was confirmed  for all German stations. This was only possible  with the support and the enormous commitment  of all employees and managers. This gives us a  top position in the air freight industry, says Bet- tina Jansen, Head of Security and Environmental  Management at Lufthansa Cargo AG. The com- pany plans to expand its environmental manage- ment system to international stations in 2012.   Green Solutions was one category in the first  international innovation competition organized  by Lufthansa Cargo, the Open Innovation Chal- lenge. Investments in innovation are decisive  for the air freight service provider in the environ- mental area as well. At the end of 2011, custom- ers, employees and other interested persons  were able to submit their ideas via an Internet  platform. Many of these are now being pursued  internally at Lufthansa Cargo.   Since 2010, Lufthansa Cargo has actively par- ticipated – together with the Fraunhofer Institute  and other logistics companies – in the research  project Green Logistics, which is supported  by the German federal government. The proj- ects goal is to identify the environmental effects  of logistical processes and systems on a user  pays basis, as well as to develop methods and  instruments for a comprehensive ecological  assessment. The Lufthansa subsidiary provides  its know-how in the area of air freight logistics  and has also assumed the lead in the design  of a resource-efficient air freight center. The  results of the case study ecoHub will be taken  into account in planning the infrastructure of the  Cargo hub at the Frankfurt location. More infor- mation is available at   www.green-logistics-network.info    An environmental cockpit chart helps ensure  that management is informed regularly about  goals, activities and environmentally relevant  performance ratios.   Lufthansa Cargo published its first sustainability  report in 2012. Lufthansa Technik    Lufthansa Technik has set itself the goal of hav- ing all its subsidiary companies certified by  2013 according to the environmental manage- ment standard ISO 14001 and job safety speci- fication OHSAS 18001.  Were pleased that the certification  of our environmental management  system was confirmed for all German  stations. This gives us a top position  in the air freight industry.   Bettina Jansen Head of Security and Environmental Management Lufthansa Cargo AG  a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 81   In the reporting year, the companies Lufthansa  Technik Turbine Shannon and Lufthansa Tech- nik Airmotive Ireland successfully concluded  their certification projects in accordance with  OHSAS 18001. Both companies have been cer- tified according to ISO 14001 for many years.  Certification projects are planned or have been  started at seven further companies in 2012.   Furthermore, the company aims at reduc- ing CO2 emissions at its Hamburg location by  30 percent by the end of 2012 compared with  2006. By the end of 2011, the company had  achieved about 23 percent of this target value.  By putting into service its own cogeneration  plant in April 2012, the company reduces its  CO2 emissions by a further 7,200 tonnes a year  and will significantly surpass its goal. LSG Sky Chefs   LSG Sky Chefs introduced a global environ- mental management system that is modeled on  ISO 14001 and monitored by internal audits. In  addition, the company has switched its system  over to SAP and is recording the relevant envi- ronmental data with this software in 2012 for the  first time.   In 2011, LSG Sky Chefs carried out a review  in each of its six regions to identify the envi- ronmental aspects that are significant for its  business. The process of these controls forms  the basis for future environmental audits to be  applied worldwide. Through these audits, the  company plans to monitor new environmental  aspects, program implementations and risks.   An environmental calendar informs all lev- els and regions within the company about all  important dates in this area. LZ Catering   In 2011, this wholly-owned Lufthansa subsidiary   successfully participated with two staff res- taurants and its headquarters in the eco-profit  project in Hamburg – a support program for  environmental protection in companies – and  received the corresponding certificate at the  end of the year. LZ Catering is continuing the  eco-profit project in 2012 with four staff restau- rants and its headquarters.   Sustainable purchasing: The goal is to increase  the share of organically grown and regionally  produced ingredients continuously. This way,  UTZ certified coffee has been used at the com- panys Bartesse Coffeeshops since April 2012.  For the purchase of fish, the company applies  the criteria of the World Wide Fund for Nature  (WWF) and favors fish certified by the Marine  Stewardship Council (MSC). The MSC quota  has been increased from 6 to more than 43  percent of the total value of fish purchased by  the company.   The staff restaurant at the Lufthansa Aviation  Center in Frankfurt received organic certifica- tion in November 2011. Twice a week, dishes  prepared entirely with organic ingredients are  offered to diners.   In 2011, the employees also received trainings  concerning environmentally compatible prac- tices. Furthermore, the company formulated  environmental guidelines and joined the initia- tive Umweltpartnerschaft Hamburg (Environ- mental Partnership Hamburg).   JOB&FIT certification: The company plans to  have its health-promoting concept Food Bal- ance certified in 2012 at all company restau- rants in accordance with the JOB&FIT criteria  of the German Nutrition Society (DGE). Fur- thermore, the company restaurants in Cologne  and Norderstedt are to have their certification  renewed. Lufthansa Global Tele Sales   Lufthansa Global Tele Sales (GTS) concluded  its internal environmental audits in 2011.    The wholly-owned Lufthansa subsidiary has  been supplied with 100 percent eco-electricity  since 1 January 2012.  AirPlus   Lufthansa AirPlus Servicekarten GmbH, an  international provider of solutions for business  travel management, has developed products  that allow companies to organize their business  trips in sustainable ways. With the AirPlus Green  Reports, the company provides its customers  with transparent, detailed analyses of the CO2  emissions caused by business travel, so that  they can integrate this data into their own emis- sions balance sheets. Additionally, the solu- tion AirPlus Carbon Offset gives companies the  option to compensate the emissions caused by  business flights automatically and to have them  billed to their AirPlus customer account.  a Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 82 Energy and resource management Towards sustainable practices on the ground Lufthansa applies sustainable practices not only in the air but also on the ground. For quite some time, the  Group has been involved in projects that specifically focus on the advancement of alternative propulsion  techniques for use during the taxiing phase of aircraft and for ground vehicles.  In addition, the aviation companys energy  experts continuously search for ways to con- serve even more electricity in existing buildings  by means of ecological construction principles  and intelligent energy management. Success- fully so, as the following examples from 2011  demonstrate. eTaxi: Test of electric-powered taxiing for air- craft on the apron Identifying potentials to conserve kerosene is one  of the Lufthansa Groups most important tasks in  the area of climate protection and environmen- tal responsibility. In December 2011, Lufthansa  German Airlines and Lufthansa Technik therefore  ran initial tests, under the banner of eTaxi, of an  electric drive mounted on a main landing gear to  be used by aircraft in the continental fleet for all  taxiing on the apron. The tests were jointly carried  out with Fraport and New York-based technology  company L-3 Communications, with support from  Airbus. The goal of the comprehensive feasibil- ity study is to determine whether electric motors  fitted to the main landing gear of an Airbus A320  are suitable for environmentally friendly ground  operations. With good reason, because studies  show that short- and medium-haul aircraft con- sume more than 3 percent of their overall fuel  burn during taxiing. In the framework of a five-day  practical trial under the real conditions of daily  flight operations, the expert team tested in partic- ular pushing the aircraft back at the gate as well  as taxiing to and from the runway. The data thus  generated are being analyzed in a next step. The  results will determine if the development of a pro- totype is useful.  Fuel cell-powered electric nose wheel   for the Airbus A320 Environmental thinking also inspired the develop- ment of a fuel cell-powered electric wheel on the  nose gear of an Airbus A320. Lufthansa Tech- nik developed the system in the context of the  aviation research program LuFo IV, together with  the German Aerospace Center (DLR) and Air- bus, and tested it for the first time on 1 July 2011  at Hamburg Finkenwerder. The innovative nose  wheel allows aircraft to taxi to the runway without  using the engines and thus almost emissions- free. At Frankfurt Airport alone, according to the  experts, this system would save 17 to 19 percent  of exhaust emissions and eliminate almost 100  percent of noise during taxiing. An added advan- tage is that the fuel cell-powered nose wheel  would lessen the workload on the engines and in  turn extend the maintenance intervals. First electric car with inductive charging  technology On 29 August 2011, Germanys first electric car with  inductive charging technology was put into ser- vice at Frankfurt Airport by Frankfurt Mayor Petra  Roth, the Chairman of the Board of energy pro- vider Mainova, Dr. Constantin H. Alsheimer, and the  CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Christoph Franz.  The innovative vehicle not only helps make aircraft  handling and maintenance as resource-efficient as  possible but also delivers insights in the context of  a pilot project on how e-vehicles can be recharged  conveniently. In addition, the future-oriented car  helps to generate and analyze detailed measur- ing data.  Lufthansa Technik in Frankfurt currently operates  275 passenger vehicles in aircraft maintenance.  Apart from its range, the battery-powered vehicle  is superior in every respect to vehicles with inter- eTaxi – the pioneering idea for more environmentally friendly ground operations.  a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 83 Official inauguration of the inductive recharging station on 29 August 2011 at the   maintenance base of Lufthansa Technik AG in Frankfurt. nal combustion engines. And in combination with  electricity from renewable sources, it is also CO2- neutral, adds Harald Weinand, who is respon- sible for environmental protection at Lufthansa  Techniks aircraft maintenance wing. Specifi- cally refitted for the use of inductive technology,  the e-car has also been licensed for road traf- fic. Its battery is recharged cable-free at Frank- furt Airports first induction charging station, also  recently recently inaugurated.  Photovoltaic system on CityLine hangar As an expression of the responsible use of finite  resources, Lufthansa continuously endeavors  to reduce the energy consumption of its build- ings further. Guided by this principle, a photovol- taic system with a surface of 5,400 square meters  was installed in 2011 on the flat roof of Lufthansa  CityLines Hangar 2. The system makes a signifi- cant contribution to lowering the CO2 emissions  at Cologne/Bonn Airport. The airport operator  installed the solar modules with support from the  Lufthansa subsidiary. Environmental principles  are firmly anchored in our company. Thats why  we were immediately in favor of this project, says  Klaus Krichbaum, Head of Facility Management  at Lufthansa CityLine. Thanks to the new solar  system, 48,000 tonnes of CO2 can be avoided,  and more than 133,000 kilowatt hours of elec- tricity can be produced and fed into the airports  supply network. This quantity of electricity is  enough to supply 33 three-person households  with energy for a whole year in a climate-neutral  way. A further positive effect: As the white, highly- reflective foil of the photovoltaic modules reduces  the solar radiation on the buildings roof, the tem- peratures inside the hangar are always pleasant. Lufthansa Technik builds maintenance hangar  at the new capital city airport in Berlin  On 21 June 2011, ground was broken for the  future maintenance hangar of Lufthansa Tech- nik at the new capital city airport in Berlin. The  hangar is being built on a lot of 18,200 square  meters and will offer a hall surface of 6,700  square meters. Another 1,700 square meters will  provide space for offices, a mechanical work- shop and logistics areas. About 110 highly-quali- fied mechanics and engineers will simultaneously  carry out maintenance – ranging in scope up to  an A-check – on up to five short- and medium- haul aircraft or on one long-haul aircraft up to  the size of an Airbus A340. Energy efficiency and  ecology played a key role in planning the hangar.  Among other things, the company was intent on  limiting the buildings volume, and thus its energy  needs, by using a special support structure. The  16 million euro project expands the Lufthansa  subsidiarys location Berlin Schnefeld and is  part of the preparations for the inauguration of the  new international airport BER.   Lufthansa supported Rhine-Main region as a   Showcase for Electromobility   In early 2012, the Lufthansa Group was one of the consortium partners sup- porting the bid of the mobility region Frankfurt Rhine-Main, which includes  the Mainz and Aschaffenburg areas, to become a Showcase for Electromo- bility under the German federal governments National Development Plan  for Electromobility. This federal program aims to help develop Germany into  both a leading market for and a leading provider of electromobil ity. It also  promotes the registration of at least one million electric vehicles in Germany  by 2020 – of which 75,000 should be on roads in Hessen. This move is  closely linked to the efforts to lower emissions to fulfill national climate pro- tection goals. Had the model region Frankfurt Rhine-Main been awarded the  project, Lufthansa planned to invest over the next three years in 11 proj ects   promoting electromobility. Besides Lufthansa, more than 100 partners from  business, research and public administration supported the bid. While the  Rhine-Main region unfortunately was not awarded the contract, the Lufthansa   Group will keep a close eye on the subject of e-mobility and in particular on   the developments in the area of aviation, even without the Federal Govern- ments project.  a Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 84 Lufthansa Technik counts on cogeneration  plant in Hamburg   Economic and ecological criteria provided in  equal measure the reasons for the construction  of the new combined heat and power plant at  Lufthansas Hamburg base, which was put into  service by Lufthansa Technik in March 2012. The  3.4 million euro power station, which significantly  supports Hamburgs climate protection concept,  has a capacity of 2 megawatts of electrical or  thermal output respectively. It supplies a quarter  of Lufthansa Techniks total thermal needs and a  third of its electricity requirements in Hamburg.  The company buys the remaining energy from  regional utility companies. The advantage of a  combined heat and power plant lies in its particu- larly efficient mode of operation, especially when  there is a concurrent need for electricity and heat,  as is the case with us, explains Jrg Wettlin,  responsible project manager at Lufthansa Tech- nik. He considers the new cogeneration plant as  a future-oriented decision. Thanks to this plant,  we cut CO2 emissions by 7,200 tonnes a year.  This corresponds to a CO2 avoidance of 10 per- cent, according to Wettlin. To ensure that the  investment pays off not only ecologically but also  economically, an economic efficiency analysis  preceded the plants construction. Lufthansa Systems:   Cooling mainframes without a lot of hot air By operating latest-technology mainframe comput- ers, cooling units and other equipment, Lufthansa  Systems has significantly reduced the energy con- sumption at its data centers in the recent past. In  this manner, the company was able to lower its  important Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) value  from over 2 to a very favorable 1.6. The PUE indi- cates the ratio of the total energy used by a data  centers facility to the energy used purely by its  computers. The IT specialists take matters one  step further by using both the data centers cool- ing system and its waste heat to cool and heat  the offices. The new cogeneration plant of Lufthansa Technik AG in Hamburg.  Lufthansa Systems: The latest technology helps reduce the energy consumption of data centers.  a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 85 Starting in 2015, the Lufthansa continental fleet  will be integrating Airbus A320neo and A321neo  aircraft, which are also equipped with the new  PW1000 engines manufactured by Pratt & Whit- ney. Therefore, the noise measurements in the  context of the certification of these aircraft are  expected to show significantly lower values than  for predecessor models. This again represents  important progress with regard to noise reduc- tion efforts. Ongoing optimization of the existing fleet Independently of its investments in new aircraft,  the Lufthansa Group works intensively on reduc- ing the noise emissions of the existing fleet.  Together with the German Aerospace Center  (DLR), the aviation company has been work- ing for many years to identify noise sources on  aircraft fuselages in a systematic manner. The  insights generated in this area form the basis for  numerous noise-reducing activities, such as the  latest investments in further perceptible noise  protection measures at the Frankfurt hub (see  New package of measures: Alliance for noise  protection 2012 on page 87).  Noise emissions Great commitment to less noise The Lufthansa Group always advocates clear reductions of the noise emissions associated with flying  – a complex task that demands the cooperation of many different players. Therefore, the Group works  permanently with partners in industry, public administration, academia and research on developing  perceptible noise reduction measures. The related activities comprise the following  areas: continuous fleet modernization, ongoing  optimization of the existing fleet, noise-reducing   procedures in flight operations, commitment  to noise research and participation in expert  committees. Continuous fleet modernization Today, all but three aircraft types operated by the  Lufthansa Group already fall below the important  minus 10 EPNdB criteria (Effective Perceived  Noise dB) of the strict Chapter 4 noise standard  of the International Civil Aviation Organization  (ICAO), which has been applied to new aircraft  since 2006. Even so, Lufthansa is not resting on  this success, but will acquire 168 new aircraft in  the framework of its current fleet modernization  program, which runs until 2018 (see Planning for  sustainability: 168 new aircraft by 2018 on page  26). These comprehensive investments in aircraft  with efficient and low-noise engines are the basis  for quieter air transport, as the following examples  demonstrate: In this way, the noise footprint of Lufthansas Air- bus A380 is about 30 percent smaller than that  of comparable predecessor models. The same  applies to the Boeing 747-8, of which the aviation  company has 20 aircraft on firm order for delivery  starting in May 2012. Furthermore, SWISS will replace its Avro RJ100s  with Bombardier CSeries aircraft from 2014.  Thanks to the most advanced engines and high- tech materials, the CSeries aircraft reach new  dimensions of economic efficiency and environ- mental compatibility. The cumulative certification  margin of the CSeries is 10 to 15 dB below that of  the Avro RJ100, because the PW1000 engines of  these Bombardier aircraft feature for the first time  geared turbofans as standard equipment. This  innovative technology establishes new bench- marks not only in noise reduction but also in fuel  conservation. The newly developed GEnx-2B67 engines of the Boeing 747-8   are exceedingly fuel efficient and quiet.  a Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 86 In this context, the engines of the entire Lufthansa  Boeing 737 fleet stationed in Frankfurt were fitted  with new acoustic panels by the end of 2011. In  this way, noise during departure and approach is  reduced by up to 2.4 decibels at the certification  measuring points, according to the manufacturers  data. This voluntary effort is part of the First  Package of Measures for Active Noise Pro- tection at Frankfurt Airport presented in June  2010 by Forum Airport and Region (FFR). Noise-reducing procedures in flight  operations In addition to progress from technical improve- ments, the noise emissions from air traffic can be  reduced by certain flight procedures. For exam- ple, Lufthansa Cargo started in early 2011 using  the segmented approach procedure during  the night hours in the Rhine-Main region. The  segmented approach allows pilots to fly around  densely populated areas. Likewise part of the  First Package of Measures for Active Noise Pro- tection, this important building block for noise  reduction at Lufthansa Cargo and Lufthansa   German Airlines is being tested in Germany for  the first time. The goals of this trial run, organized  in cooperation with the German Aerospace Cen- ter, are to gain operational experience with the  procedure and to determine its potential for less- ening the noise burden across the region. Furthermore, Lufthansa uses the quieter Continu- ous Descent Approach (CDA) at Frankfurt Airport  whenever possible. Under the CDA procedure,  pilots can reduce an aircrafts noise emissions  by reducing engine thrust. The First Package of  Measures for Active Noise Protection calls for an  increase of CDAs by means of a modified flight  guidance by the German Aerospace Center. Commitment to noise research and participa- tion in expert committees Fact-based solutions for noise reduction can only  be developed when the mechanisms of noise  development and the characteristics of individ- ual sources of noise are known exactly. To gain  new knowledge and develop solutions, Lufthansa  has therefore worked continuously for over ten  years in the research network Quiet Traffic with  numerous partners, such as the German Aero- space Center.  New research project MODAL  At many airports, operators, airlines, residents,  municipalities and ministries are discussing ever  more intensely further options for active noise  protection. Against this background, there is an  increasing need to calculate and assess potential  measures more precisely – and thus be able to  plan them more exactly. For example, Lufthansa  endeavors to identify additional noise reduc- ing steps, analogous to the new acoustic panels  installed in the engines of the Boeing 737 fleet  stationed in Frankfurt. To be sure, the Direc- tive for the calculation of noise protection areas  (AzB), which has been in effect since 2007,  is not designed to calculate the effects of such  measures. Given the lack of alternatives, however,  it has served well in the past to help determine  such effects approximately. Point of brake-release   Boeing 747-400    max. takeoff weight 395 t 2,000 m 2,000 m 0 m 0 m – 2,000 m 2,000 m 4,000 m 6,000 m 8,000 m 10,000 m 12,000 m 14,000 m Point of brake-release   Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental    max. takeoff weight 442 t 2,000 m 2,000 m 0 m 0 m – 2,000 m 2,000 m 4,000 m 6,000 m 8,000 m 10,000 m 12,000 m 14,000 m Fleet modernization results in audible achievements The noise footprint of a Boeing 747-8 Intercontinental taking off will be about  30 percent  smaller than that of a Boeing 747-400, despite a maximum take- off weight that is about 10 percent higher. Shown below are the 85-dB maxi- mum level contours for a departure following  Lufthansas standard departure  procedure (modATA) and with the indicated takeoff weight.  Source: Boeing  a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 87 By contrast, the planned DIN 45689 (Determi- nation of aircraft noise exposure at airports) is  to enable more exact noise calculations, as it  also takes into account individual types of aircraft  and flight performance calculations. The new  research project MODAL (Models and data for  the development of active noise protection mea- sures in air transport) contributes decisively to  the standardization process by helping set up  the standardized aircraft noise database urgently  needed for the new DIN norm. Led by Lufthansa,  the project group, which also includes the DLR,  airport operators and noise monitoring special- ists, has successfully applied for research funds  at Germanys Federal Ministry for Economics and  Technology for MODAL. The total budget of the  project is 1.6 million euros, of which 1.1 million  euros are covered by public funds. The aviation company coordinates MODAL,  which started in January 2012 and is set to end  in March 2015. Work will focus on analyzing  data generated in previous years on measuring  flights with a Boeing 747 and on identifying noise  sources. Should the need arise, the project will  also concentrate on developing further noise- reducing measures. A parallel task is to add  data for the Boeing 747-400 to the database for  the DLRs computer-based aircraft noise simula- tion program SIMUL. Beyond that, the new stan- dardized aircraft noise database will be linked  to an initial version of a DLR simulation program  in accordance with DIN 45689. This move will  allow the experts to analyze and assess selected  noise-reduction measures at different locations  by means of the new DIN calculation method  for the first time. MODAL will take us a giant  step forward in noise research. In earlier proj- ects, such as FREQUENZ, we worked together  with our partners to collect important measuring  data, the effect of which we can now analyze in  greater detail. Thanks to the work in the context  of MODAL, the new DIN standard will be applied  for the first time. As a result, we will be able to  analyze and assess noise sources and active  noise protection measures with much greater  accuracy, explains Dr. Gerd Saueressig, Man- ager Group Environmental Issues at Deutsche  Lufthansa AG.   New package of measures: Alliance for noise protection 2012 On 29 February 2012, representatives of Lufthansa, Fraport, the airline asso- ciation BARIG, DFS Deutsche Flugsicherung and Forum Airport and Region  signed the agreement Together for the region – Alliance for more noise pro- tection 2012 together with Hessen prime minister Volker Bouffier. Its goal is  to reduce perceptibly the burdens produced by aircraft noise in the area sur- rounding Frankfurt Airport. Its measures were developed by various working  groups from the aviation industry, the state government and Forum Airport  and Region, a platform set up by the state of Hessen to facilitate the dialogue  between the aviation industry and people living around the airport. One measure decided by Lufthansa is a modification on its entire fleet of  A320s stationed in Frankfurt. By making modifications to the wings under- side in an area in front of the fuel tank cap, the company aims not only at  realizing a noise reduction of 1 to 2 decibels during the approach phase,  but also at completely eliminating two unpleasant sounds. This measure  is linked to previous joint research with the German Aerospace Center. In  2011, Lufthansa concluded its refit of all Boeing 737s stationed in Frankfurt,  as part of the First Package of Measures for Active Noise Protection agreed  in 2010. The new acoustic panels installed in the aircraft engines lead to  noise reductions during the departure and approach phases. Alongside aircraft modifications, improved departure and approach proce- dures form another area of emphasis in the active noise protection at Frank- furt Airport. Lufthansa has contributed its aeronautical know-how and par- ticipated intensively in developing these improvements. Beyond the noise- reducing flight procedures already implemented, further measures are  planned for step-by-step introduction over the medium and long term. At the same time, it is crucial that municipal administrations consistently intro- duce construction restrictions in the vicinity of airports to prevent residential  areas from encroaching on airports – as has happened frequently in the past.  In the interest of a comprehensive course of action, the balanced approach  of the UNs International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) demands regula- tions on new construction to complement the measures on aircraft and in flight  procedures. This is the only way toward comprehensive action packages that  can develop into optimal and sustainable effects.  a Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 88 4U = Germanwings C3 = Contact Air CL = Lufthansa CityLine EN = Air Dolomiti EW = Eurowings IQ = Augsburg Airways LH = Lufthansa German Airlines, Lufthansa Cargo LX = SWISS OS = Austrian Airlines 1  New ICAO Chapter 4 limit, which has been effective for new aircraft  since 2006: – 10.0 EPNdB when compared to Chapter 3.  Lufthansa Group fleet (active fleet on 31.12.2011)  in EPNdB A330-200 LX  – 13.9 / – 14.5 A330-300 LH  – 18.8 A330-300 LX  – 18.4 A340-300 LH  – 22.6 / – 22.9 A340-300 LX  – 22.1  A340-600 LH  – 23.0 / – 23.4 A380-800 LH  – 26.7 B 747-400 LH  – 12.7 / – 13.3 B 767-300 OS  – 16.6 / – 16.8 B 777-200 OS  – 21.4 MD-11F LH  – 13.4 / – 13.5 A319-100 LH  – 15.2 / – 19.3 A319-100 LX  – 18.2 A319-100 4U  – 17.4 / – 19.4 A319-100 OS  – 18.3 / – 19.3 A320-200 LH  – 13.2 / – 14.3 A320-200 LX  – 13.7 / – 15.9 A320-200 OS  – 14.1 / – 15.0 A321-100 LH  – 15.5 A321-100 LX  – 10.8 A321-100 OS  – 11.5 A321-200 LH  – 14.1 / – 14.7 A321-200 LX  – 14.4 A321-200 OS  – 9.0 / – 9.2 B 737-300 LH  – 10.3 / – 15.6 B 737-500 LH  – 10.8 / – 15.3 B 737-600 OS  – 16.7 B 737-700 OS  – 16.1 B 737-800 OS  – 12.9 / – 13.6 ATR72-200 EN  – 26.5 Avro RJ-85 CL  – 17.1 Avro RJ-100 LX  – 16.4 CRJ-200 EW  – 28.0 CRJ-700 CL  – 16.3 CRJ-900 CL  – 16.6 CRJ-900 EW  – 16.6 Fokker 70 OS  – 24.3 / – 25.2 Fokker 100 OS  – 16.2 Fokker 100 C3  – 16.2 ERJ-190 IQ  – 15.1 ERJ-190 CL  – 15.1 ERJ-195 EN  – 14.9 ERJ-195 IQ  – 14.9 ERJ 195 CL  – 14.9 DHC8-400 IQ  – 25.3 / – 25.6 DHC8-400 OS  – 24.5 / – 25.9                  – 10.01 Grouping of aircraft types according to MTOW:   under 50 t    50 to 150 t    above 150 t This division ordinarily corresponds to a grouping of regional,   continental and intercontinental aircraft. Margins below the noise limit of   ICAO Chapter 3 The bar chart indicates the sum of the differences  between the measured value and the threshold  value at the three measuring points by type of air- craft (cumulated margin). Where necessary, the  values based on the reduced maximum take- off weight prevailing in flight operations are indi- cated. To allow a more transparent depiction, an  improved method of analysis was developed for  the previous issue of Balance, which includes the  individual noise certificate data of all Group air- craft for the first time. Different versions of an air- craft model and its engines by year of construc- tion are thus better taken into account. While the  conservative approach used until reporting year  2008 meant that only the values of the sub-fleet  with the lowest cumulated margin were reported  to describe an aircraft fleet, the new analytical  method used since reporting year 2009 means  that the value ranges from the lowest to the  highest cumulated margin are now indicated for  many fleets. In addition, many aircraft were recer- tified in reporting year 2010 according to the  new, more stringent ICAO Chapter 4 standard.  The analysis also takes into account any modi- fications to aircraft or engines that have been  made in the meantime, thereby leading to modi- fied noise data and cumulated margins in certain  cases. In addition, numerous additions and with- drawals in individual fleets lead to changes in the  value ranges reported.  a Balance 2012 | Climate and Environmental Responsibility 89 This includes initiatives to limit aircraft noise (see  Great commitment to less noise on page 85), to  promote the use of biofuels (see Long-term trial  of biofuel – On track for the air transport of the  future on page 67) and to test alternative propul- sion technologies such as eTaxi for aircrafts taxi- ing phases (see Towards sustainable practices  on the ground on page 82).  Global climate changes are among mankinds  most momentous challenges. In this context,   Lufthansa has been especially active since as  early as 1993 through various projects designed  to monitor the state of the Earths atmosphere. To   this end, 15 European project partners under the  direction of the Research Center Jlich and with  the participation of Lufthansa prepared during a  multiyear development phase for the research  project IAGOS (In-service Aircraft for a Global  Observing System). The long-term observation of  the Earths atmosphere by means of scheduled  flights – a novelty in climate research – began  in July 2011: Since then, specially designed  measur ing instruments aboard the Lufthansa  Airbus A340-300 Viersen have routinely cap- tured trace substances in the atmosphere dur- ing flights – worldwide and on a broad basis. In  the future, aerosols and cloud particles will also  be recorded. After each landing, these data are  Research projects Under development: Worldwide measuring infrastructure  for climate research No research, no progress. To minimize the effects of air transport on the environment, targeted   research is needed in many cases. Therefore, the Lufthansa Group is active in numerous scientific   projects, whose spectrum reaches far beyond climate research.  digitally read out, processed and analyzed by  experts. The projects goal is to create a world- wide measuring infrastructure to be able to  observe the Earths atmosphere globally with  support from civil aviation. The data generated  in this way are of central importance for climate  research and numerical weather forecasts. In February 2012, the IAGOS partners tested the  existing set of instruments aboard the Lufthansa  Airbus in conjunction with a Real Time Transmis- sion Unit for the first time. The test aims to cre- ate the prerequisites for the future transmission of  the collected data in real time from the aircraft to  the ground. There, the data would be fed into the  existing meteorological data networks. This would  not only serve to improve weather forecasting fur- ther. It would also help to refine current weather  information for the next hour, which experts refer  to as now-casting. The sonde on the forward left fuselage of the Lufthansa A340-300 Viersen takes samples for the climate research project IAGOS.  a Climate and Environmental Responsibility | Balance 2012 90 All the climate research projects supported by Lufthansa are clearly described in the new fl yer Climate research on scheduled fl ights. IAGOS workshop on the subject of  volcanic ash The volcanic eruption in Iceland in spring 2010  and its resulting consequences for aviation dem- onstrated that the expert knowledge on the infl u- ence of ash particles and the gases released  during such eruptions on aircraft engines is  limited. Against this background, the IAGOS  research partners examined at Lufthansas initia- tive – in March 2011 at the World Meteorological  Organization (WMO) in Geneva – the question of  whether it would make sense to measure aero- sols routinely from aircraft in the future. Among  the participants of the three-day workshop were  airline representatives, aircraft and engine manu- facturers as well as vulcanologists and aerosol  researchers. The workshops goal was to identify  synergies and to initiate further research projects.  In the end, the most diverse disciplines can draw  utility from routine aerosol measurements aboard  aircraft. These include climate research (aero- sols have a signifi cant infl uence on cloud genera- tion), materials research (aging and wearing pro- cesses due to the infl uence of dust), meteorology  (improvements of spreading models), vulcanology  and air traffi c control.  Further information on the climate research proj- ects supported by Lufthansa are available at  www.lufthansa.com/responsibility Lufthansa Technik is testing an  innovative paint system On 1 July 2011, Lufthansa Technik, in cooperation  with the Fraunhofer Institute Bremen and Airbus,  began testing an innovative paint system in  Frankfurt. A new technology makes it possible  to apply microstructures that mimic the prop- erties of sharkskin onto an aircrafts coating,  thereby reducing fl ow resistance. As a result, fuel  consumption and operating costs also decline.  Developed by the Fraunhofer Institute, this solu- tion makes it possible for the fi rst time to apply  the long-identifi ed advantages of technically  simulated sharkskin in an aviation context. The  primary goal of this test phase is to assess the  durability and wear of the fi nely stencilled struc- ture. For this purpose, selected surface areas  on two Lufthansa Airbus A340-300s have been  equipped with paint patches, which will be  checked and analyzed regularly by experts until  mid-2013. Lufthansa has assumed responsibil- ity once again and put the fi rst  IAGOS climate research aircraft into  operations. Other airlines will follow  this example to help set up an instru- ment to observe the Earths atmo- sphere by means of civil aviation. Dr. Andreas Waibel Manager Group Environ mental Issues Deutsche Lufthansa AG   a Balance 2012 | Corporate Citizenship 91 Corporate Citizenship Environmental sponsorship Education Social commitment Sports sponsorship Cultural commitment  a Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2012 92 Social commitment Immediate humanitarian aid – fast, uncomplicated, direct 26,000 blankets for earthquake victims   in Japan On 23 March 2011, a special Lufthansa Cargo  flight operating free of charge took off in Frank- furt bound for Tokyo to provide emergency relief  in the wake of the devastating earthquake and  tsunami. Aboard the MD-11 freighter were 70  tonnes of aid supplies for the Japanese people  affected by the catastrophe, including 26,000  blankets, hundreds of sleeping bags and spe- cial mattresses to help victims survive the cold  and damp. Lufthansa Cargo organized the aid  flight in cooperation with the DG Humanitar- ian Aid & Civil Protection of the European Com- mission and maintained close contact with the  International Red Cross in Geneva and other aid  organizations.  Flight against Hunger reaches people   in East Africa Fast and unbureaucratic were also the watch- words for Lufthansa Cargos efforts to bring relief in  the face of famine in the Horn of Africa. To lessen  the effects of drought for the people in Somalia,  Kenya, Ethiopia, Eritrea and Djibouti, Lufthansa  Cargo sent an MD-11F to Nairobi on 17 August  2011 with 90 tonnes of aid supplies, consisting  mainly of food stuffs, medications and tents. The  cargo airline made this flight possible by joining  forces with the aid organization Luftfahrt ohne  Grenzen/Wings of Help and other partners. In a  parallel move, the Lufthansa organizations Cargo  Human Care (see Cargo Human Care – Medi- cal aid for people in East Africa on page 96) and  HelpAlliance (see HelpAlliance – Helping those in  need help themselves on page 93) appealed to  the companys employees for donations and set  up dedicated accounts for that purpose. As the situation remained critical, Lufthansa  Cargo made a second flight with aid supplies  to Nairobi just a month later, on 21 September  2011, in cooperation with Luftfahrt ohne Gren- zen/Wings of Help as well as Payback and  other partners. The situation in East Africa is  still dramatic. As an airline, we have the means  to get donated aid supplies quickly and directly  to places where they are urgently needed. So it  is natural for us to support this aid transport as  well, says Karl Ulrich Garnadt, Chairman of the  Executive Board and CEO of Lufthansa Cargo. Lufthansa Cargo organizes its first Expert  Round for Humanitarian Logistics Humanitarian logistics plays a key role in helping  victims of natural disasters. But what criteria must  air transport fulfill as a part of the humanitarian  logistics chain so that aid supplies reach their des- tination without delay? Against this background,  the first Expert Round for Humanitarian Logistics  took place at the invitation of Lufthansa Cargo on  6 October 2011 in Frankfurt. The objectives were  to understand better the needs of international  aid organizations and to develop further the com- panys own commitment. Participants included  logistics experts of the International Red Cross,  Technisches Hilfswerk (THW), Germanys Fed- eral Foreign Office and Lufthansa Cargo manag- ers. The workshop gave the starting signal for the  development of ideas and concepts to further the  professionalization of aid transport. Since Novem- ber 2011, the initiative has received creative sup- port from the Group-wide platform explorers:  This development program unites young manag- ers from across the Lufthansa Group to work on  the subject of humanitarian logistics. The project is  expected to conclude in November 2012.  Earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or droughts – whenever natural disasters threaten peoples lives, the  Lufthansa Group provides immediate humanitarian aid. In 2011, the aviation group again applied its   logistics competence to support emergency relief efforts for those in areas affected by disaster.   a Balance 2012 | Corporate Citizenship 93 Drought in East Africa  In 2011, the HelpAlliance made the Horn of Africa  an area of emphasis in its activities, as the people  there suffer from the effects of dramatic drought  conditions. Tens of thousands have already died  and more than 12 million are suffering from fam- ine. To mark its solidarity with the local popula- tion, the HelpAlliance called upon the Groups  employees to make donations and set up a dedi- cated account. The enormous willingness to help  shown by Lufthansa employees made it possible  among other things to support a water project  at the refugee camp Kakuma in the border area  between Kenya and Somalia. Thanks to these  donations, 20,000 people could be provided with  water for six months. Lufthansa Systems employ- ees in Frankfurt and Hamburg also demon- strated marked commitment. In cooperation with  the HelpAlliance, they collected donations in the  amount of 20,000 euros for this project. Getting active for others despite ones own difficult  living conditions: That was the maxim applied by  the teachers of the Watoto project supported by  the HelpAlliance near the coastal city of Mombasa.  Instead of watching idly as their countrymen starve  to death, they gave up part of their salaries and  together with their pupils parents collected money  in order to organize three aid convoys to the north  of Kenya. The HelpAlliance provided additional  financial support for this campaign as well. HelpAlliance – Helping those in need help themselves The HelpAlliance is a registered charity founded in 1999 by employees from across the Lufthansa  Group. Its members volunteer their services, are politically and denominationally independent, and   collect donations to be allocated in a meaningful manner to social aid projects.  The focus of these humanitarian activities is on  nutritional and health care programs, schools,  vocational training facilities, orphanages and  street-children projects in Africa, Asia and Latin  America. The goal is to promote self-help ini- tiatives so that those in need are later able to  improve their living conditions by their own  means. The initiatives backed by the HelpAlliance  divide into long-term projects and shorter-term,  results-oriented project support. The organiza- tion also provides emergency aid, as it did follow- ing the earthquake and tsunami in Japan in early  2011. To help meet the needs of victims there,  the HelpAlliance set up a dedicated donation  account and organized a benefit concert with the  Lufthansa Orchestra.   The Group has firmly supported the HelpAlliance  since its inception. This support comprises the  release of employees from work on a full- or  part-time basis, the use of offices including tech- nical infrastructure at Frankfurt Airport free of  charge, and assistance with logistics and com- munications. To distribute the associations  growing tasks onto a greater number of shoul- ders, the HelpAlliances board was expanded  from three to five members in November 2011.  The association now counts 15 full members  and nearly 1,600 supporting members. In 2011,  the HelpAlliance supported 45 projects with a  total amount of 1.5 million euros. Teachers of the Watoto project near the coastal city of Mombasa selflessly organized several aid convoys   to the north of Kenya with support from the HelpAlliance.  a Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2012 94 New minivan for school meals project Another success story in 2011 was a call for  donations by the HelpAlliance to benefit the Sup- ported Project Rays of Hope – a school meals  project at the Riversands Primary School on the  outskirts of the Diepsloot township near Johan- nesburg. There, an aged minivan had to be  replaced as quickly as possible. It was used to  get warm meals to 650 primary school pupils  three times a week. The money to buy a new  multipurpose vehicle (MPV) was collected in  record time. This was due not only to the contri- butions of many socially active Lufthansa employ- ees but also to the generosity of an HON Circle  member who learned about the schools pre- dicament and spontaneously donated more than  20,000 euros. We were very touched by this  gesture. It illustrates impressively how positively  the HelpAlliance and its commitment are per- ceived by Lufthansa customers, says Rita Diop,  First Chairwoman of the HelpAlliance.  Long-term support for Haiti  Two years after the devastating earthquake in Jan- uary 2010 in Haiti, about half a million Haiti ans are  still living in provisional accommodations. Employ- ees across the Lufthansa Group collected about  220,000 euros to lessen the effects of this natural  disaster; the Groups Executive Board doubled  this amount to 440,000 euros. Part of these funds  were used to reconstruct and to equip six small- scale schools run by the Salesians of Don Bosco.  Both projects were successfully concluded in  August 2011. The donations also made it possible  to reconstruct a primary and secondary school  for 350 children and adolescents that had been  destroyed in Gressier, near the earthquakes  epicenter. Pakistan: Medical care for 10,000 families Following the exceptional flooding in August  2010 in Pakistan, the HelpAlliance again reacted  promptly to help the people in the stricken areas  with a total of about 140,000 euros. Just one year  after the most severe inundations in the coun- trys history, large parts of Pakistan were again  flooded after intense monsoon rainfall. Once  again, we helped right away and among other  projects equipped a mobile clinic with medical  instruments and medications to look after 10,000  families in 150 villages, explains Rita Diop. In  addition, we were able to finance the salaries of  the medical staff for a full year. On-board collection program Small Change – Its a Big Help Small gesture, big result is the concept for a campaign that allows passengers  to donate coins and bills in any currency – leftover money they carry on long- haul flights home – to a good cause. This is made possible by the onboard col- lection program Small Change – Its a Big Help. Since 2001, small sealable   donation envelopes have been available in the seat pockets on long-haul air- craft; cabin crews then collect and forward all donations to the HelpAlliance. In  addition, donation pillars in staff areas, in the Lufthansa lounges at all German  airports and in the public areas of the Frankfurt and Munich hubs invite those  who pass by to support the associations social projects with their donations. The HelpAlliance and the humanitarian organization b.foundation for Africa  at Brussels Airlines have joined forces in the area of onboard collections since  September 2011. This allows the passengers of Belgiums largest airline to  donate coins and bills in any currency to the HelpAlliance as well; previously, this  had been possible only on Lufthansa and Condor long-haul flights.    On-board collection program Development of donation revenues1 2001   207,175 2002   232,692 2003   216,539 2004   238,023 2005   294,870 2006   279,575 2007   260,939 2008   230,433 2009   224,053 2010   286,184 2011   205,362 October 2003: beginning of Condors participation September 2011: beginning of Brussels Airlines participation 1  As the final figures were not yet available at the close of copy, all figures mentioned  for 2011 in this article are preliminary. Haiti: Reconstruction project of the primary and secondary school in Gressier. In February 2011,  350 pupils were able to move from tents into the new school building, and 80 pupils found a new  home at the attached boarding school.  a Balance 2012 | Corporate Citizenship 95 Indispensable: Continuous collection   of donations  It is the willingness of the Lufthansa Groups  employees and Executive Board that makes the  HelpAlliances work possible in the first place.  At the same time, the number and intensity of  natural disasters are on the rise. This increases  the need to help and, in turn, the charitys finan- cial needs. To ensure that it will be able to cover  these needs in the future, the HelpAlliance sig- nificantly increased its online activities in 2011,  among other measures. For example, it is now  possible to make donations in a quick and easy  way by using the online payment system Pay- Pal. Setting up this new donation channel was  preceded by a potentials analysis carried out by  the participants of explorers, Lufthansas plat- form for young managers. Additionally, Lufthansa  Marketing gave communications support to the  HelpAlliances activities in the social media, such  as Facebook.  The festivities celebrating the 100-year anniver- sary of Hamburg Airport on 25 September 2011  were an opportunity to combine business with  pleasure: Sightseeing flights over Hamburg with  a Lufthansa Airbus A380 generated revenues of  50,000 euros, which were split evenly between  the HelpAlliance and a local help organization. In  addition, Lufthansa took advantage of the current  employee survey to generate donations. The   HelpAlliance received one euro for each com- pleted and returned questionnaire. Furthermore, a  bilingual newsletter targeting the Lufthansa Groups  managers and providing information about the  charitys activities was launched in August 2011.  It is published twice a year, and in its first issue  Christoph Franz, Chairman of the Executive Board  and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, called upon  readers to support the HelpAlliance.  The HelpAlliances Annual Report accounts for  the organizations activities. Lufthansa also spon- sors the production of this report. www.help-alliance.com   Marathon in Cape Town:   Lufthansa employees collect donations for HelpAlliance project On 23 April 2011, Lufthansa employees proved once again that they spare no  effort to support the HelpAlliance. This time it was nine members of the runners  group of the Lufthansa Sports Association in Hamburg who participated in the  Two Oceans Marathon in Cape Town. Prior to the event, they collected 1,535  euros for the benefit of the iThemba preschool near Cape Town, a joint project  of the HelpAlliance and Lufthansa Global Tele Sales (GTS) that opened in March  2010. Located in a township, this preschool offers 75 children between the ages  of three and six a safe place to learn and play in a carefree manner. Helping hands also in Vietnam: The HelpAlliance project Saigon Childrens Charity supports and  looks after children with disabilities, and guides them on their paths toward self-determined lives.  a Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2012 96 ties aboard its MD-11F freighter aircraft but also  covers the cost of air tickets for German medical  specialists. Three times a month pediatricians,  ENT specialists, dentists, gynecologists, general  practitioners, ophthalmologists, urologists, anes- thesiologists and HIV specialists fly for three-day  stints to Africa to practice on a volunteer basis. Launch of child sponsorships  A further area of emphasis for CHC during the  reporting year was the launch of medical spon- sorships. In the area surrounding Mothers  Mercy Home live many sick, handicapped and  neglected children who urgently need medica- tion and clothing. Whenever the physicians and  staff of the Medical Centre learn about especially  precarious cases, Cargo Human Care does all it  can to lessen the immediate needs of these boys  and girls. The aid project also aims at enabling  the children to attend a day school or boarding  school and at finding an educational sponsor in  Germany to cover the associated costs. The plan  is to place at least 30 medical and about 45 edu- cational sponsorships by the end of 2012. The  cost per child ranges from 25 to 75 euros per  month; should a sponsor drop out, Cargo Human  Care steps in. As soon as a sponsored child suc- cessfully completes school or vocational train- ing and becomes independent, the sponsorship  ends automatically. Reading competition and summer camp   at Mothers Mercy Home Aiming to improve the reading competency and  to promote the reading pleasure of the children  at the Mothers Mercy Home long-term, the insti- tution organized a public reading competition in  June 2011 for 30 pupils in grades 7 and 8. The  CHC also made it possible to buy books that are  recommended for teaching at Kenyan schools,  thus increasing the holdings of the library of the  Mothers Mercy Home.  Following last years marked success, Cargo  Human Care organized a second summer camp  at the MMH in August 2011. Eight workshops  offered the children opportunities to be creative  and to test and improve their handicraft skills.  Cargo Human Care – Medical help for people  in East Africa  Something that is taken for granted in Germany and other industrialized countries often remains inac- cessible to people in other parts of the world: basic health care. To help sick and injured people in a di- rect and unbureaucratic manner despite this situation, employees of Lufthansa Cargo joined forces with  German physicians in 2007 to found the registered charity Cargo Human Care (CHC).  This aid project was initiated by Fokko Doyen,  MD-11F Captain and Fleet Chief at Lufthansa  Cargo. During a layover in 2004, he discovered  the Mothers Mercy Home (MMH) and decided  to actively support the small orphanage on the  outskirts of Nairobi. On 6 December 2011, the  CHCs first Chairman was awarded the Order  of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany for  his work. Fokko Doyen has worked tenaciously  for humanitarian aid in Kenya and gained many  supporters in this way. His selfless commitment  has also made him a worthy ambassador of  our country, emphasized Michael Boddenberg,  Hesses Minister of Federal Affairs and State Rep- resentative to the German Federal Government,  in his eulogy.  Currently, Cargo Human Care has 400 members.  The focus of its charitable work is on two institu- tions that are entirely dedicated to the well-being  of children and disadvantaged people in the sur- rounding area: the Mothers Mercy Home and the  Cargo Human Care Medical Centre in the imme- diate vicinity of the orphanage. In addition, CHC  supports the Medical Centre of the SOS Chil- drens Village Buru Buru.  Lufthansa Cargo has firmly supported the asso- ciation since its foundation. The logistics ser- vice company not only provides cargo capaci- In front of the Cargo Human Care Medical Centre on the outskirts of Nairobi,   patients are waiting to be treated.  a Balance 2012 | Corporate Citizenship 97 A special offer was designed for the orphan- ages adolescents. Under the skilled guidance of  a local carpenter, they built shelves and a work  surface for the MMHs planned woodworking  workshop.  In the pipeline: The MMHs modernization A number of buildings at the Mothers Mercy  Home are beginning to show their age – not least  due to the tropical climate, which gnaws away  relentlessly at the structures. To secure the proj- ects future, Cargo Human Care is planning to  rebuild or replace old buildings on the orphan- ages site step by step. This process is to begin  with the kitchen; other buildings are slated to fol- low by around mid-2014. Food supplies for 224 families in the   north of Kenya  Given the drought and famine in East Africa,  Cargo Human Care has worked closely with the  Anglican Diocese of Marsabit since August 2011  to supply corn, beans and oil once a month to  224 families living in two villages in northern  Kenya. For this purpose, employees at Lufthansa  Cargo and friends of CHC have tirelessly col- lected donations. The diocese coordinates the  purchase, transport and distribution of the aid  supplies to local families. Currently, the CHC and  its partners in the drought-stricken areas are  looking for ways to ensure the food supply over  the long term, such as by constructing wells so  that families can water their fields themselves. www.cargohumancare.de Lufthansa Cargo: 30 years of cooperation with   Werksttten fr Behinderte Rhein-Main    The cooperation between Lufthansa Cargo and the registered charity Werksttten   fr Behinderte Rhein-Main (Sheltered Workshops) has already spanned three  decades. About 100 employees with disabilities produce more than 250,000  yellow lashing straps a year in Mrfelden-Walldorf. Used for loading purposes,  these straps are indispensable for securing air freight expertly on Lufthansa and  Lufthansa Cargo flights. To mark the anniversary, the transport service company  organized a big party on 7 June 2011 in Mrfelden with more than 500 guests.  For us, the Werksttten fr Behinderte Rhein-Main are much more than a supplier  offering the highest level of product quality, said Peter Gerber, board member  responsible for Finance and Human Resources at Lufthansa Cargo. Over the past  three decades, a genuine partnership and friendship has developed between the  employees at the workshop and those at Lufthansa Cargo. This tried-and-tested  partnership will remain an important part of the companys social commitment.  Currently, the Werksttten fr Behinderte Rhein-Main give about 400 people with  physical or mental disabilities an opportunity to gain a professional qualification  and to work in a secure job.  SWISS: Werksttte Drahtzug in Zurich produces   recycled bags for a good cause SWISS cooperates with the association Werksttte Drahtzug in Zurich. There,  employees with severe psychological disabilities manufacture colorful and trendy  recycled bags by hand on behalf of the Lufthansa Group airline. Once taken  out of service, large SWISS advertising banners made from weatherproof fabric  serve as raw material for these bags. Unsurprisingly, the first 500 bags, each a  unique specimen, sold out quickly. Part of the revenue generated by each bag  goes to the SOS Childrens Villages. SWISS has supported this international chil- drens aid organization for many years. For example, the airline has made do - nation envelopes available aboard its aircraft, collected leftover amounts in any  currency and forwarded these donations to the SOS Childrens Villages. In addi- tion, the airline commits itself to the independent SWISS Childrens Foundation  by providing financial, infrastructure and logistics support. The foundation allows  SWISS employees to work for SOS Childrens Villages on a volunteer basis.  a Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2012 98 Environmental sponsorship Crane Protection Germany Working Group. Ever  since, the Lufthansa Environmental Sponsor- ship Program has been particularly committed to  the Crane Information Center in Gro Mohrdorf,  which is run by the Working Group. In 2011 alone, the facility drew more than 14,000  visitors into its spell. And for good reason, as the  center offers the chance to observe the birds of  good luck in the Rgen-Bock region of Meck- lenburg-Western Pomerania, without disturbing  them. Moreover, information and education take  an increasingly important place in the centers  daily work. From 25 September to 2 October  2011, the 13th Week of the Crane offered a wide- ranging program consisting of crane observa- tion, slide shows and information events. A spe- cial highlight was the premiere of the fi lm Crane  Journey Through Europe, whose production  was sponsored by Lufthansa. Now available on  DVD, this new documentary produced by Crane  Protection Germany uses impressive images to  describe the yearly cycle in the life of the Eur- asian crane. About 100 crane experts from all over Germany  met from 21 to 23 November 2011 at the 21st  Annual Conference of the Crane Protection  Germany Working Group. The key topic was  Cranes and Agriculture. In addition, the dele- gates adopted a number of resolutions concern- ing the protection of this large nomadic bird. The  conference also provided the framework to cel- ebrate 20 Years of Crane Protection in Germany  and to honor the numerous volunteer helpers of  the organization in an appropriate way. Lufthansa also supported the design and produc- tion of Crane Duet in 2011. This new memory  and learning game contains 48 cards and pres- ents images of all 15 crane species. It was devel- oped by Crane Protection Germany in coopera- tion with children at the day care center in Gro  Mohrdorf. Crane Duet is available from Crane  A matter of the heart: Crane protection  Saving the crane has been a matter of the heart  for Lufthansa for over 30 years. At least 11 of  the worlds 15 crane species are threatened in  their existence. To make an effective contribu- tion to the survival of these majestic large birds,  the company joined forces with Naturschutzbund  Deutschland (NABU) and the environmental foun- dation WWF Deutschland in 1991 to found the  In addition to the Crane Protection Germany Working Group,  Lufthansa supports the crane protection projects of the  following environmental and nature conservation organizations: EuroNatur Foundation Project countries: Spain and Israel www.euronatur.org Society for the Protection of Nature in Israel (SPNI) Project country: Israel www.birds.org.il NatureLife-International Project country: South Africa www.naturelife-international.org International Crane Foundation Project country: USA, worldwide www.savingcranes.org South African Crane Working Group Project country: South Africa www.ewt.org.za Responsibility for biodiversity, today and tomorrow The diversity of animal and plant species, ecosystems and genetic resources has an inestimable value for  the long-term existence of all living beings on Planet Earth. Pursuing the goal of protecting and preserv- ing biodiversity sustainably, the Lufthansa Environmental Sponsorship Program has supported German  and international environmental and nature conservation organizations for more than 30 years. One area  of emphasis are the activities aimed at protecting migrating animal species, such as the crane, and their  habitats.  a Balance 2012 | Corporate Citizenship 99 Protection Germany and costs 12.80 euros; each  set contains a bilingual (German/English) infor- mation leaflet. Nearly half the sets produced were  flown to the U.S. aboard a Lufthansa plane for  delivery to the partner organization International  Crane Foundation. www.kraniche.de UNEP/CMS Thesis Award:   Protecting the animal worlds nomads  The UNEP/CMS Thesis Award was given for the  third time in November 2011. Since 2004, Lufthansa  has endowed this international doctoral thesis  award, which is given every three years and offers  prize money of 10,000 euros. The goal is to gain  deeper insights into the biology, reproduction and  feeding behaviors of the worlds 8,000 to 10,000  migratory animal species, whose habitats are ever  more threatened. Increasing academic knowledge  is indispensable to developing and implement- ing effective measures to protect such species as  migratory birds, marine mammals and bats. Via  this research award, Lufthansa makes an important  contribution to supporting the Convention on the  Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals  (CMS), whose signatory nations have committed  themselves to the protection of migratory species  since 1979.  The 2011 UNEP/CMS Thesis Award was given to  British biologist Dr. Lucy King. She developed a  model allowing the limitation of the areas affected  by crop damage caused by elephants. It is based  on these thick-skinned animals natural fear of  honey bees. Intelligently positioned, these self- defending insects act as a living barrier, spoiling  the elephants appetite for lush green areas. Con- flicts between humans and animals can thus be  defused even before they arise. www.cms.int NatureLife International:   Secondary forests for more biodiversity Turning remaining patches of primary forest into  species-rich secondary forests: That is the goal  of Rainforestation Farming, a pilot project of the  environmental foundation NatureLife International  supported by the Lufthansa Environmental Spon- sorship Program for more than ten years. This  method was developed by the foundations envi- ronmental experts, in cooperation with Hohen- heim University and Visayas State University, on  the island of Leyte in the Philippines. Rainforestation Farming, which calls for the refor- esting of cleared areas of rainforest, has also  been successfully applied since 2007 in western  China in an area bordering with Laos and Myan- mar. This method makes it possible to fix eroded  soil long-term and to absorb CO2 already present  in the atmosphere, thereby boosting climate pro- tection. Furthermore, this form of sustainable culti- vation creates jobs that secure a livelihood for the  rural population over the long term. Ever-widening circles: Traveling exhibition  World Champions of Nature NatureLife International is firmly committed to  consistent environmental education. Its goal is  to sensitize people to the topics of sustainabil- ity, environmental care and nature conservation  and to increase their knowledge in these areas.  To this end, the foundation built on the German  peoples passion for sports and with support from  Lufthansa designed and produced the travel- ing exhibition World Champions of Nature. The  show has been fascinating visitors since August  2010 with its insights into the extraordinary physi- cal abilities of animals. This linking of high perfor- mance in sports with like phenomena in nature  has been so well received by the public that the  exhibition was again shown in 2011 in numer- ous locations. These included the Federal Press  Agency in Berlin, the Nature Protection Center  Eriskirch in Aachen and the Esterhzy Museum  at Schloss Lackenbach in Austria. Plans call for  an even more pronounced international use of  the show and the further development of individ- ual exhibition modules for this purpose. www.naturelife-international.org In 2011, the Crane Information Center in Gro Mohrdorf cast its spell   on more than 14,000 visitors.  a Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2012 100 Two brands in harmony: Lufthansa and  Colognes Grzenich Orchestra Since October 2010, Lufthansa has been the  Grzenich Orchestras First Global Partner, rep- resenting its first long-term commitment to a   German symphony orchestra. In 2011, the com- pany continued its support for Colognes most  desirable concert brand and thus played a sig- nificant part in promoting the musical life and  rich traditions in the city that is home to its cor- porate headquarters. The years brilliant highlight  was the festive concert on 24 September 2011 to  mark the 25-year anniversary of the Klner Phil- harmonie. About 120 HON Circle and Senator  customers, Cologne Mayor Jrgen Roters and  representatives from local and state politics in  North-Rhine Westphalia listened spellbound to   a performance of Gustav Mahlers 8th Symphony,  the Symphony of a Thousand. Inaugurated  in 1986 with the same rarely performed work,  the Klner Philharmonie has been home to the  Grzenich Orchestra ever since.  Lufthansa and the Grzenich Orchestra are part- ners with a shared basic concept: Both are pre- mium brands with a high level of public visibility  and a high demand for quality. At the same time,  alongside their regional roots, both stand for  internationality and a pronounced willingness  to innovate, said Stephan Gemkow, Chief  Financial Officer of Deutsche Lufthansa AG, in  his pre-concert welcome speech to concert- goers at Museum Ludwig. www.guerzenich-orchester.de  Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Music The 27th edition of the Lufthansa Festival of  Baroque Music took place from 13 to 21 May  2011 in London, taking listeners on A Voy- age through Europes Heart. Twelve concerts  illustrated the entire breadth of European  baroque music, from the Baltic to the Adri- atic. It was performed in important churches  such as St. Johns Smith Square and the ven- erable Westminster Abbey and was followed  by hundreds of thousands of listeners world- wide thanks to the BBCs radio broadcasts.  Lufthansa is a global company with a truly  European character, so the festivals motto fits  perfectly with the airlines in our group, says  Christoph Franz, Chairman of the Executive  Board and CEO of Deutsche Lufthansa AG.  Together with its system partner Rolls-Royce,  the company has supported the festival,  Cultural commitment and education Lufthansa builds bridges between cultures  and generations Giving support to culture and education is a significant part of Lufthansas commitment to society. As an  aviation group with international activities, the company creates innumerable connections every day –  not only between cities, countries and continents but also between people of the most diverse origins  and backgrounds, as the following examples illustrate.  Grzenich Orchestra: A festive concert on 24 September 2011 marked the 25-year anniversary of the Klner Philharmonie.  a Balance 2012 | Corporate Citizenship 101 which is renowned far beyond the British capital,  since its inception.  In 2011, numerous renowned artists enthralled  Londons knowledgeable audiences, which  included many customers, business partners and  friends of Lufthansa. The festival was opened by  the noted Bach specialist Philipp Herreweghe  with his choir and orchestra Collegium Vocale  Gent. Gustav Leonhardt, one of the outstand- ing pioneers of historical performance prac- tice, gave one of his last concerts at the festival.  Another highlight was the concert entitled Music  from Salzburg, which united the world-famous  choir of Westminster Abbey and musicians of St.  Jamess Baroque in a performance of works by  Bertali, Biber and Schtz. The 28th Lufthansa Fes- tival of Baroque Music took place from 18 to 26  May 2012. In the year of the Olympic Games in  London, it featured music reflecting the themes of  competition as well as the peaceful coexistence  of nations. www.lufthansafestival.org.uk  Lufthansa New Years Concert For connoisseurs of classical music, the annual  Lufthansa New Years Concert has become a  regular institution. The 15th edition of this highly  regarded event was marked by Russian music,  such as Dimitri Shostakovichs A Spin Through  Moscow and Peter Tchaikovskys well-known  Concerto for piano and orchestra No. 1 in b  minor, op. 23. On 17 January 2012, about 1,200  invited guests – including many Lufthansa status  customers as well as representatives from poli- tics, business and culture – found their way to  Berlins Konzerthaus am Gendarmenmarkt. Lufthansa again participates in Kunst privat! Lufthansa again took an active role in shap- ing the seventh edition of Kunst privat! (Pri- vate Art!), which took place on 28 and 29 May  2011. Interested visitors thus had an opportunity  for the fourth time already to view the art col- lection housed in the Lufthansa Aviation Center  (LAC) in Frankfurt, which is ordinarily not open to  the public. The initiative, in which about 35 inter- national corporations and regional companies in  Frankfurt, Wiesbaden and Darmstadt participate,  is organized by Hesses Ministry of Economics,  Transport and Development. The particularity of  the Lufthansa exhibition concept: Unlike mov- able objects, such as paintings or sculptures, the  exhibits at the LAC represent art in architecture,  or works of art that are so well integrated into the  building that they often only become visible to  viewers at a second glance. Every year, the cam- paign Kunst privat! is a highlight for Lufthansa  and an extraordinary platform to present our- selves to the public from an unusual perspective,  says Hildegard Lamberty at the Lufthansa Visitors  Service. Well be joining the event again in 2012.  Numerous prizes for the finalists of the Fed- eral Public Reading Competition In 2011, Lufthansa supported the Federal Public  Reading Competition for the first time. This highly  regarded competition is an initiative of the German   Publishers and Booksellers Association in co - operation with schools, libraries, book stores  and other cultural institutions. Last year, about  640,000 students from 7,500 elementary, second- ary and high schools participated in the country- wide competition. The finals of the events 52nd  edition took place on 22 June 2011 at the   German National Library in Frankfurt. As a   partner of the national finals, Lufthansa provided  The Collegium Vocale Gent under the direction of Philippe Herreweghe opened the Lufthansa Festival of Baroque Music 2011 with a sold-out performance.  a Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2012 102 numerous prizes. For example, the company  donated air tickets for the two winners for a trip  within Europe accompanied by their parents and  siblings. www.vorlesewettbewerb.de  Door-opener Day at Lufthansa Technik in  Hamburg On 10 July 2011, to help mark the 40th anni- versary of the widely popular childrens edu- cational series Mouse TV, Lufthansa Technik  participated in the first-ever Door-opener Day.  Launched by series producer Westdeutscher  Rundfunk, this cross-industry initiative attracted  about 250 host companies and institutions,  including factories, laboratories, city halls and  bakeries nationwide. At Lufthansa Technik, the  Door-opener Day took place under the motto  Look, Touch, Try and drew 25,000 visitors to its  Hamburg location. There, mouse fans of all ages  were offered such rare learning opportunities as  visiting an aircraft cockpit. They also found out  how engines function or how a hole in the air- craft fuselage would be repaired. At Lufthansa  Technik, we too always have many questions  and ideas, and so Mouse TV fits us very well.  Im proud that so many people came to visit us,  said Dr. Thomas Stger, member of the Executive  Board responsible for Products and Services at  Lufthansa Technik.  Lufthansa Systems bestows three Scholar- ships Germany In the context of the program Scholarship   Germany, Lufthansa Systems supports three  topflight students majoring in information tech- nology or physics at Darmstadts Technical  University for one year each. The program, an  initiative of Germanys Federal Ministry of Edu- cation and Research, provides scholarship  holders half of their support from Germanys  Federal Government and half from a private- sector company. Linked to the scholarship is  the opportunity to gain firsthand information  about IT specialist Lufthansa Systems and its  technical innovations.  Learning from students: SWISS supports sim- ulation of UN climate negotiations Students at the universities in St. Gallen (HSG)  and Cologne, ESADE Barcelona and the War- saw School of Economics managed in just two  days what thousands of delegates at the UN cli- mate conferences have not been able to accom- plish for years: the successful conclusion of a  global treaty to reduce CO2 emissions. The simu- lated negotiations are part of the CEMS Master  Program for International Management, which is  offered as a cooperation between leading busi- ness schools, multinational companies and non- government organizations. In 2011, SWISS sup- ported the negotiation team of St. Gallen Uni- versity as a part of its social commitment. The  university course entitled Model UNFCCC aims  at sensitizing students to the problems of climate  change and enabling them, as our hope for the  future, to help shape the contents of an interna- tional climate protection treaty.  www.cems.org  www.unisg.ch  Door-opener Day at Lufthansa Technik in Hamburg for Mouse TV.  a Balance 2012 | Corporate Citizenship 103 Sports sponsorship National Paralympic Committee Germany Lufthansa is a cosponsor of the National Para- lympic Committee Germany, which celebrated  its 60th anniversary during the reporting year.  Lufthansa supported the official celebrations on  9 September 2011 in Berlin as well as the elec- tion of the Handicapped Athlete of The Year on  26 November 2011 in Cologne. Furthermore, the  Group supports the project GOLD – You can do  more than you think, a documentary film about  the life of three world-class athletes with disabili- ties. It aims at increasing public acknowledgment  of athletes with handicaps, reducing prejudices  and contact anxiety, and advancing the inclu- sion of athletes with disabilities. Shooting for this  film, which will premiere at the 2013 Berlinale,  has already begun. Lufthansa supports this proj- ect mainly with communications measures, such  as regular reports in its internal media, including  the employee newspaper Lufthanseat and the in- flight magazine. In addition, information stands at  the Frankfurt Half-Marathon and at the Lufthansa  Inclusion Day draw attention to the project.  German Sports Aid Foundation At the beginning of 2012, Lufthansa extended its  partnership with the German Sports Aid Founda- tion by another four years – as the first National  Sponsor ever to do so. The foundation supports  more than 4,800 athletes. A specific goal is to  accompany young talents, with and without dis- abilities, all along their path toward top athletic  performances. Therefore, the company is again  planning to take on the sponsorships for ten  potential Olympic medal winners from the German  Sports Aid Foundations elite program for talented  young athletes in the coming years. The German  Sports Aid Foundation gives a perfect framework  of conditions for supporting top athletes across  the entire spectrum of sports in Germany, sus- tainably and efficiently. A further area of emphasis in this context is to  assist the campaign Your Name for Germany  until 2015 with even more intensive communica- tions measures and to promote it in diverse ways.  For example, the company targets employees,  passengers and customers with the message that  they can sponsor one of Germanys top athletes  for only three euros a month. For many years   Lufthansa has also supported numerous events  of the German Sports Aid Foundation, such as its  Sports Ball, which most recently took place on  4 February 2012 in Frankfurt and serves to collect  donations for the sports foundation.   Partner of top-level sports Sports sponsorship has a long tradition at Lufthansa. The company has been committed to top-level  sports ever since the 1972 Olympic Games in Munich. It continues to assume its social responsibility in  this area and is today a partner of many leading national institutions, associations and societies. Information stand on the documentary film GOLD – You can do more than you think   in the context of the Lufthansa Inclusion Day 2012.  a Corporate Citizenship | Balance 2012 104 One of the films protagonists will strengthen the  Lufthansa team participating in the company run  JP Morgan Corporate Challenge 2012.  German Olympic Sport Confederation The aviation group also assumes its social respon- sibility with regard to top Olympic performances.  For this reason, the company has been an official  copartner of the German Olympic Sport Confed- eration and of the National Paralympic Committee  since 2006. Moreover, Lufthansa has been an offi- cial copartner of the National Olympic Committee  for many years. And in its role as Official Carrier,  the Airline of Sports traditionally flies the German  national teams to Olympic and Paralympic Games,  which will also include the 2012 Summer Olympic  Games in London. Finally, as a National Sponsor,  Lufthansa supports the applications of German   cities as venues for Olympic Games. This was the  case in 2011 when Munich applied for the 2018  Winter Olympic Games.  German Soccer Association To continue the partnership with the German  Soccer Association that has been in effect since  2005, Lufthansa extended its contract with the  association on 27 May 2011. The Group will thus  remain the German Soccer Associations Official  Partner until the Soccer World Championship in  2014 in Brazil. In practice, this means that the   German national soccer teams and the associa- tions members will fly exclusively with Lufthansa to  all games at home and abroad. For the first time,  the cooperation with the German Soccer Associa- tion now also includes the womens national soc- cer team. The company also seized the oppor- tunity to fly the Japanese national womens soc- cer team back home after they won their world  champion title in 2011.  FC Bayern Mnchen and Eintracht Frankfurt Soccer moves people – so does Lufthansa. There- fore, it is only logical that the company has been the  Official Carrier for the professional players of FC  Bayern Mnchen since 2004, flying them to all First  Division and cup finals in Germany and to all inter- national games of the UEFA Champions League in  Europe. Beyond that, Lufthansa has been the official  partner of Eintracht Frankfurt since 2008.  For further information visit   www.lufthansa.com/sport Company and mass sports People who engage in sufficient sporting activities are physically fitter and  suffer less often from back problems. This is proven by studies. Furthermore,  the number of people missing work because of illness is lower, while work  motivation increases and the work climate improves. For these reasons,  Lufthansa has traditionally offered a broad range of sports disciplines to   promote and secure the ability to perform and fitness for work of its employ- ees over the long term. The Group employees enthusiasm for sports is also  illustrated by the fact that 6,500 of them are active members of the 13 com- pany sports associations with varying numbers of disciplines in Germany. For  example, at the location in Frankfurt there was a choice of 49 types of sports  in 2011 to help improve ones fitness. There is also undiminished popularity for the campaign Lufthanseaten lau- fen (Lufthansa employees run), which was set up in 2009. Furthermore, the  JP Morgan Corporate Challenge in Frankfurt, Europes largest inter-company  run, was a fixed date in the calendar of many Lufthansa running enthusiasts  in 2011 as well. In addition, some employees participated for the fourth time  already in the Komen Race for the Cure in Frankfurt, whose proceeds ben- efit breast cancer education and research. In addition Lufthansa is firmly committed to the long-term promotion of mass  sports in the Rhine-Main region. For this reason, the company has been the  title sponsor of the Frankfurt Half-Marathon since 2009. In 2012, the year of  its 10th anniversary, this event drew a record 4,350 participants, including 250  Lufthansa employees.  a Balance 2012  105 ATM – Air Traffic Management  Air Traffic Management ensures both the  safe and efficient movement of aircraft in  all phases of operations. Atmosphere  The whole mass of air surrounding  the Earth. It is divided into various lay- ers, distinguished from one another by  distinct differences in vertical bands  of temperature. Important for air traf- fic are the two lower layers: the tropo- sphere and, above it, the stratosphere.  The tropospheres upper boundaries  vary depending on season and latitude.  They lie at altitudes of 16 to 18 kilome- ters above sea level at the equator, and  at 8 to 12 kilometers above sea level at  the poles. The temperature in the tro- popause, the transition layer between  troposphere and stratosphere, drops to  only about minus 60 degrees Celsius. It  rises again in the stratosphere. The so- called ozone layer is also located in the  stratosphere at altitudes of about 25 to  30 kilometers. Todays commercial air- craft fly at cruising altitudes of between 8  and 13 kilometers. According to the lat- est research, air traffic emissions do not  contribute to the reduction of the ozone  layer. B.A.U.M. – Bundesdeutscher Arbeits- kreis fr Umweltbewusstes Manage- ment e.V. – Federal Working Group for  Environ mentally-Aware Management B.A.U.M. was founded in 1984 as the  first independent environmental initiative  of German business. At currently 450  members, it is the largest of its kind in  Europe. Lufthansa has been a member  of the Working Group since 1997. www.baumev.de BDL – Bundesverband der Deutschen  Luftverkehrswirtschaft – Federal Associ- ation of the German Aviation Industry www.bdl.aero  Glossary AEA – Association of European Airlines  www.aea.be Aerosols Aerosols are solid and/or liquid parti- cles that are suspended in the air. They  reach the atmosphere by means of  natural processes (wind, desert storms,  volcanic eruptions) or human activities  (combustion of biomass and fossil fuels).  The most important aerosols are mineral  dust, sea salt, cellular (biological) par- ticles, soot, organic compounds and sul- fate. From a climatic perspective, aero- sols are the opponents of greenhouse  gases, as they can reflect incident light  and thus have a cooling effect.  AIRE – Atlantic Interoperability Initiative to  Reduce Emissions Transatlantic program in the framework  of SESAR to reduce emissions from air  transport. aireg e.V. – Aviation Initiative for   Renewable Energy in Germany  aireg is a registered association of leading  German research institutions, Lufthansa  and other companies in the aviation indus- try, and bioenergy producers. The goal of  this initiative, which was founded in 2011,  is to advance the development and intro- duction of regenerative aviation fuels in  Germany and to inform the public at large  about this topic. www.aireg.de ASPI – Advanced Sustainable Perfor- mance Indices  Lufthansa features in the ASPI Index,  which was set up in 2001. This index  depicts the financial performance of the  120 best companies of the Dow Jones  EURO STOXX according to the criteria of  sustainability. The prerequisite for being  listed in the ASPI Index is the systematic  integration of the long-term interests of  stakeholders in the context of corporate  policy, strategy and activities. The index  is run by the agency Vigeo in coopera- tion with Stoxx Ltd. www.vigeo.com Carbon dioxide (CO2)  Gas resulting in nature from the burning  or decomposition of organic masses (e.g.   plant material) and from the breathing  process of humans and animals. The  greenhouse gas CO2 remains for about  100 years in the atmosphere. Scientists  attribute the increase of atmospheric  CO2 over the last 100 years to the burn- ing of fossil fuels (e.g. coal, oil, natural  gas) by humans. Per tonne of fuel, 3.15  tonnes of CO2 result from the combus- tion process. Currently, about 2 percent  of man-made CO2 emissions are due to  worldwide air traffic.  Source: IPCC/WRI 2007 Carbon monoxide (CO)  Chemical compound consisting of one  carbon and one oxygen atom, formed in  the incomplete combustion process of  substances containing carbon. For air- craft engines, the level of CO emissions  depends greatly on the thrust level: The  emissions per kilogram of fuel burned  are higher at idle settings, while taxiing  and on approach than during the climb- ing and cruising phases. CDA – Continuous Descent Approach Procedure for a flights approach phase  that requires less engine thrust and is  therefore quieter and more fuel effi- cient. However, this type of approach is  only possible if there are no constraints  due to high air traffic in the airspace  concerned. Chapter 4 aircraft  Aircraft that meet the regulations of the  strictest noise protection standard cur- rently in force – the Chapter 4 noise  standard. The Environmental Committee  (CAEP) of the ICAO agreed on this stan- dard in September 2001. As a result, all  aircraft newly certified from 2006 must  remain cumulatively below the Chapter  3 noise levels by 10 decibels or more.  The maximum noise emission values  for aircraft were introduced by the ICAO  under Annex 16 to the convention on  international civil aviation. Noise levels  depend on the aircrafts maximum take- off weight and number of engines.  a Balance 2012 106 CPI – Customer Profile Index Lufthansa German Airlines, in coopera- tion with renowned institutes, continu- ously conducts worldwide surveys and  thus assesses the level of customer sat- isfaction. These data are compiled in the  Customer Profile Index, which informs  the entire company in the form of a sin- gle figure about the current status of  customer satisfaction. Decibel (dB) Measuring unit for the intensity and  pressure of sound. The difference in  intensity between the softest sound the  human ear can perceive and the pain  threshold is 1:10 trillion. To depict this  enormous range objectively, acoustics  uses the logarithmic decibel scale. On  this scale, the value 0 is assigned to  the perception threshold (for a sound of  1,000 Hz) and the pain threshold at the  value 130. An increase of 10 dB cor- responds to a tenfold increase in the  sounds intensity. For the perceived   volume, a difference of 10 dB corre- sponds to half or double the volume.  However, the human ear is not equally  sensitive across the entire range of fre- quencies. Low and high sounds are not  perceived as being equally loud even at  the same intensity. For measurements,  this difference is equalized and noted  accordingly. The best known such nota- tion is the A value, marked by the index  dB(A). To measure aircraft noise, the  EPNdB (Effective Perceived Noise Deci- bel) unit is used internationally. Deutsches Netzwerk Wirtschaftsethik  (DNWE) – German Network for Busi- ness Ethics  DNWE is a nonprofit organization, in  which Lufthansa has been a member  since January 1998. DNWE has about  600 current members, including many  from German business, politics, religion  and science. At the same time, DNWE is  a national association of the European  Business Ethics Network (EBEN). www.dnwe.de Diversity  In a corporate context, diversity refers  to all characteristics that distinguish  employees from one another. Diversity  management offers approaches for han- dling human differences for the benefit  of company and employees alike.  DLR – German Aerospace Center The DLR serves scientific, economic  and social purposes. It maintains 30  institutes, testing facilities and opera- tional sites. Its goal is to help – using  the means of aviation and space flight  – to secure and shape the future. In its  work, the DLR also seeks cooperation  and allocation of research tasks among  European partners. www.dlr.de Dow Jones Sustainability World Index The leading sustainability index world- wide lists the top 10 percent of compa- nies in each industry, whose sustainable  approach to corporate management is  exemplary.  econsense – Forum for Sustainable  Development of German Businesses  An association of globally active cor- porations and organizations in German  industry that have integrated the guid- ing principle of sustainable development  into their corporate strategies. Lufthansa  is a founding member of this cross- industry network, which was set up in  2000. www.econsense.de EMAS – Environmental Management  and Audit Scheme   Colloquially referred to as EU eco-audit  regulations. European regulations   concerning environmental management  and certification. Equivalent continuous noise   level (Leq)  The Leq is a measure for the energetic   average of all sound pressure levels  over a defined period of time. All sound  events that differ in intensity and duration  are summarized according to mathemat- ical rules. The resulting average value is  an accepted and proven measurement  of the noise quantity occurring over an  observed time interval.  CDP – Carbon Disclosure Project The CDP is an independent organization  working for the public welfare, whose  members are more than 550 large-scale  investors worldwide. The goal of this ini- tiative, which was founded in 2002, is  to motivate the worlds largest publicly  quoted companies to make their green- house gas emissions transparent and to  reduce them lastingly. For this purpose,  CDP and its partners developed two  indexes: Carbon Disclosure Leadership  Index, which lists companies that have  made their emissions transparent in a  particular way, and the Carbon Perfor- mance Leadership Index, which takes  into account concrete climate protection  performance.  CO see Carbon monoxide CO2 see Carbon dioxide Codeshare  A codeshare is a flight segment that is  sold under the flight number of one air- line, while being operated either partly or  entirely by another airline. Both compa- nies maintain their independent profiles  in the market. Compliance  Compliance describes the entirety of all  measures that ensure the lawful conduct  of companies, their management bodies  and their employees with regard to legal  directives and interdictions. Corporate responsibility (CR) Corporate responsibility expresses to  which degree a company assumes  accountability for the effects its business  activities have on employees, customers,   society and the environment. Corporate university  Corporate education institution for pro- fessionals and managers. See also   Lufthansa School of Business (LHSB).  a Balance 2012  107 Ethibel – Ethibel Sustainability Index The independent Belgian agency Ethibel  has listed Lufthansa in its Ethibel Invest- ment Register and the Ethibel Sustain- ability Index (ESI). The ESI offers institu- tional investors, asset managers, banks  and investors a comprehensive overview  of the financial results of companies that  distinguish themselves by pursuing sus- tainable business practices. Since the  merger with Vigeo and Stock at Stake in  2005, this index has been part of Vigeo.  However, Forum Ethibel continues to be  responsible for the ethical criteria and  the composition of the ESI. Updates of  and calculations for the index are per- formed by the internationally renowned  index provider Standard & Poors. www.ethibel.org FAB – Functional Airspace Block  Instrument of the Single European Sky to  evolve the fragmented ATM over Europe,   oriented by national airspace bound- ar ies, into a cross-border coordinated  ATM. Currently, there are nine different  FAB projects in the EU that have reached   different levels of development. Accord- ing to SES regulations, the EU member  states must take the measures neces- sary to implement the FABs by Decem- ber 4, 2012. FABEC – Functional Airspace Block  Europe Central Shared airspace that Germany, France,  Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands  and Switzerland intend to set up by  December 2012.  Freight performance (FTKO/FTKT)  Airlines distinguish between freight per- formance offered (FTKO, freight tonne  kilometers offered) and its sold freight  performance (FTKT, freight tonne kilo- meters transported). See also tonne  kilometers.  FTSE4Good  Index introduced by the Financial Times  and the London Stock Exchange in  2001. The FTSE4Good lists only compa- nies with above-average performance in  the areas of human rights, social stan- dards and environmental protection.  Lufthansa has been listed since 2001. www.ftse4good.com Fuel Dump  Dumping of fuel in flight due to emergency  situations. A procedure used on long-haul  aircraft before unscheduled landings (e.g.  in the event of technical problems or   serious passenger illness) to decrease  the aircrafts weight to the maximum per- missible landing weight. In the event of a  fuel dump, special air space is assigned  to the aircraft, if possible above uninhab- ited or thinly populated areas. Fuel is usu- ally dumped at altitudes of 4-8 kilometers.  A minimum altitude of 1,500 meters and a  minimum speed of 500 km/h are required.  The aircraft may not fly a fully closed   circle. The dumped kerosene forms a   fine mist in the turbulence behind the   aircraft. Despite the use of highly sensitive   methods of analysis, no contamination  has been determined so far in plant or soil  samples after fuel dumps. Global Compact see  UN Global Compact  Great Circle Distance  Shortest distance between two points on  the Earths surface, measured in kilome- ters (great circle kilometers) or nautical  miles. The center of a great circle is the  center of the Earth. Greenhouse gases  Gaseous substances that contribute to  the greenhouse effect and have both  natural and human (anthropogenic)  causes. The most important natu- ral greenhouse gases are water vapor  (H2O), carbon dioxide (CO2) and meth- ane (CH4); the most important anthropo- genic greenhouse gas is carbon diox- ide from the combustion of fossil fuels.  It accounts for about 77 percent of the  greenhouse effect attributable to human  activities. Methane, primarily generated  by agriculture and large-scale animal  husbandry, contributes about 14 per- cent to the anthropogenic greenhouse  effect. Other artificial greenhouse gases  are nitrous oxide (N2O), fluorocarbons  (FCs and HFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6)  and chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). Source:  World Resources Institute (WRI), 2005. HON Circle Member HON Circle Member is the highest sta- tus level that the frequent flyer program  Miles & More awards to Lufthansa cus- tomers. www.miles-and-more.com Hub  In air transport, a hub refers to a central  traffic point or an airlines transfer air- port. Passengers as well as freight are  transported from their original starting  point to one of the airlines home air- ports (hub). From there, they are car- ried to their destination by a second  flight alongside passengers and freight  from other departure points, but with the  same destination. IATA – International Air Transport  Association The umbrella organization of interna- tional commercial aviation. www.iata.org ICAO – International Civil Aviation  Organization A United Nations agency that develops  internationally binding norms for civil   aviation. www.icao.int  a Balance 2012 108 ICC – International Chamber of  Commerce The ICC was founded in 1919 as the  World Business Organization. More than  1,500 business organizations and over  5,000 corporations are organized in the  worldwide framework of the ICC. Lufthansa  has been a member since 1955. www.icc-deutschland.de ILO standards  Work standards of the International   Labor Organization, which include  among others the bans on child labor,  forced labor and discrimination as well  as the fundamental right of freedom of  association for employees.  IPCC – Intergovernmental Panel on   Climate Change An international UN panel of experts  on climate change, founded in 1988 by  the World Meteorological Organization  (WMO) and the United Nations Envi- ronmental Program (UNEP). The lat- est worldwide scientific, technical and  socio-economic information relevant for  climate change is analyzed and pro- cessed to advance the understanding of  climate change.  www.ipcc.ch ISO 14001 – International environmental  management system Companies hereby receive an effective  instrument that allows them to take envi- ronmental aspects into consideration in  decisions relating to corporate policies  and to continuously improve the situa- tion of environmental care in relation to  all daily tasks. www.iso.org Kerosene  Fuel for jet and propeller engines that   is chemically similar to petroleum. Like  diesel fuel or gasoline, kerosene is   produced by distilling crude oil; unlike  these fuels, kerosene does not contain  halogenated additives. Lufthansa School of Business (LHSB) Germanys first corporate university. It  has received multiple awards for the  worldwide standards it establishes for  the development and training of profes- sionals and managers. The LHSB sup- ports processes of change within the  Group and promotes a shared manage- ment culture.  Low-cost segment Airlines offering predominantly low fares,  but featuring reduced or separately  charged services on the ground and in  the air. Flights are most often operated to/ from airports outside of major population  centers. Mentoring  Instrument for targeted support of junior  employees. Focuses on regular personal  contacts between mentor and mentee. MRO – Acronym standing for mainte- nance, repair and overhaul of aircraft MSC standard – Marine Stewardship  Council Leading worldwide certification program  for fish and seafood from sustainable  fishing. MTOW  Acronym standing for maximum takeoff  weight of an aircraft Nitrogen oxides (NOX)  Chemical compounds consisting of one  nitrogen and several oxygen atoms. NOX  is defined as the sum of NO and NO2  compounds. Natural sources include  lightning and microbes in the soil. Nitro- gen oxides are also generated in com- bustion processes under high pressures  and temperatures. Both of these param- eters have been increased in modern  aircraft engines to significantly reduce  fuel consumption as well as emissions   of carbon monoxide and unburned  hydrocarbons. However, future combus- tion chambers of an advanced design  could help reduce NOX emissions by  85 percent. Depending on the type of  aircraft and operational conditions, this  value varies between 6 and 20 kilos per  tonne of fuel burned. Air traffic has a  share of 2-3 percent in man-made NOX  emissions. Climate models show that  nitrogen oxides have increased the con- centration of ozone at cruising altitudes  by a few percentage points. NOX see Nitrogen oxides OHSAS 18001 – Occupational Health  and Safety Assessment Series Job safety management system devel- oped by the British Standards Institution  in cooperation with international certifi- cation organizations. Ozone Molecule consisting of three oxygen  atoms formed in the stratosphere. The  ozone layer located in the stratosphere  has an important protective function,  as it absorbs harmful ultraviolet light.  While ozone at higher altitudes is broken  down massively by chlorofluorocarbons  (CFCs), it develops close to the ground  under the influence of sunlight from  numerous precursor substances (sum- mer smog) and irritates the mucous  membranes. At current levels, nitrogen  oxide emissions from air traffic at cruis- ing altitudes cause an increase in atmo- spheric ozone, analogous to the gen- eration of summer smog, estimated by  scientists at 3-4 percent on the heav i ly- flown North Atlantic routes.  a Balance 2012  109 Seat kilometer  Measure for the transport capacity avail- able (SKO, seat kilometers offered). Seat load factor (SLF)  Passenger-related measure of utiliza- tion of aircraft: The ratio of transport per- formance (PKT, passenger kilometers  transported) to capacity (PKO, passen- ger kilometers offered). SES – Single European Sky Describes the efforts of the European  Commission undertaken since the late  1990s with the goal of restructuring the  European airspace in terms of optimiz- ing traffic flows and dissolving the air- spaces fragmented structure, defined by  national borders and interests, by creat- ing a limited number of Functional Air- space Blocks (FABs). SESAR – SES Air Traffic Management  Research This project is carried out by Eurocontrol  within the EU project SES with the proj- ect partners and in close coordination  with the ICAO. SJU – SESAR Joint Undertaking A publicly and privately funded EU proj- ect involving Eurocontrol and industrial  partners (e.g. Airbus). Slot  Designated point in time at which an  airline may use an airports runway for  takeoff or landing.  Stakeholder  Groups or individuals who formulate   their demands on a company (e.g.  attainment of corporate goals) and pur- sue these either personally or through  representatives. This includes share- holders, employees, customers,   suppliers and others. Sustainable development  According to the guiding principle of  sustainable development formulated   in 1987 by the World Commission for  Development and the Environment  (Brundtland Commission), sustainable  development is a form of development   that meets the needs of todays gener- ation without jeopardizing the abilities   of future generations to satisfy their  own. For businesses, this means acting  responsibly not only in economic mat- ters but also in environmental and social  issues. All three aspects – economic,  ecological and social – must be kept in  balance. Tonne kilometer (TKO/TKT)  Measure of transport performance (pay- load multiplied by distance). One dis- tinguishes between available transport  performance (TKO, tonne kilometers  offered) and the actual transport perfor- mance (TKT, tonne kilometers trans- ported). In calculating payloads, passen- gers are taken into account by means of  a statistical average weight. Town meeting Information event for employees at differ- ent locations of a company. Trace gases  Gases of which there are only very small  amounts present in the atmosphere  (e.g. ozone, methane, nitrous oxide, etc.)  but which are of great significance for  the Earths climate and the chemical  processes in the atmosphere.  Transparency International  Anti-corruption organization, of which  Lufthansa has been a member since  1999. www.transparency.de UHC – Unburned hydrocarbons Organic mixture of carbon and hydro- gen that results from the incomplete  combustion of fuels containing hydro- carbons or from the evaporation of fuel.   Pro Recycling Paper Initiative Founded in 2000, the initiative unites  various industries and aims at promoting  an intensive usage and the acceptance  of recycling paper. Lufthansa is one of  the initiatives founding members. www.papiernetz.de Passenger kilometers (PKO/PKT)  Measure for transport performance in  passenger carriage (number of passen- gers multiplied by distance flown). Here  one distinguishes between available  transport performance (PKO, passen- ger kilometers offered or synonymously  SKO, seat kilometers offered) and actual  transport performance (PKT, passenger  kilometers transported). QC – Quota Count system The Quota Count system is used to  steer and reduce nighttime noise emis- sions from aircraft at Londons airports.  Since 1993, the system has been based  on the certified noise record data of indi- vidual aircraft types. The quieter an air- craft, the lower is its QC value.  Raked wingtips Raked wingtips are specially back- swept, elongated wingtips, which  improve an aircrafts lift and its air resis- tance in flight – and thus fuel consump- tion as well. RSB – Roundtable for Sustainable  Biofuels International initiative to develop a global  standardization and certification system  for agrofuels.  SAFUG – Sustainable Aviation Fuel  Users Group Initiative of airlines, aircraft manufactur- ers and providers of refinery technology  whose goal is to accelerate the develop- ment and commercialization of sustain- able fuels for the air transport industry.  a Balance 2012 110 UNEP – The United Nations Environ- mental Program www.unep.org UN Global Compact  Global network in whose context the  United Nations cooperates with private- sector corporations and civil action  organizations to advance human rights,  labor standards, environmental pro- tection and anti-corruption measures.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG has been a  member since 2002.  www.unglobalcompact.org VOC – Volatile Organic Compounds Volatile organic substances that are   characterized by high steam pressure  and thus evaporate easily into the atmo- sphere at room temperature. VOCs are  present in solvents, cleaning agents,  fuels and other substances. In the pres- ence of nitrogen oxides and intense  sunlight, VOCs lead to the generation of  ozone. Water vapor The most important greenhouse gas,  even ahead of carbon dioxide. Without   water vapor from natural sources, the  Earths surface would be around 22  degrees Celsius cooler. This makes  water vapor responsible for two-thirds  of the natural greenhouse effect (33  degrees Celsius). For each kilo of kero- sene burned, 1.24 kilos of water vapor  are released. Concerns that air traf- fic might increase the concentration of  water vapor in the stratosphere and thus  change the climate have been refuted  by scientific research. The German  Aerospace Center (DLR) concluded that  even a one hundred-fold increase in the  quantity of water vapor emitted by air  traffic would not result in a detectable  climatic signal. Wet lease Leasing of aircraft including complete  crew, maintenance and insurance. Work-life balance  Refers to a healthy equilibrium between  work and private life. WRI – World Resources Institute Founded in 1982 as a nonprofit organi- zation. This independent environmental  think tank has its headquarters in Wash- ington D.C., and is concerned with sub- jects related to global warming, diverse  ecosystems, government systems and  structures, renewable energies and the  use of resources. The WRIs work goes  beyond scientific research and aims at  finding pragmatic solutions to protect  the environment, advance sustainable  development and improve peoples gen- eral life situation.  www.wri.org Contact partners You can find contact partners in the area of Corporate responsibility under the heading Service at www.lufthansa.com/responsibility Please note that www.lufthansa.com is the central contact point for all inquiries concerning customer service.  Under the header Help & Contact you will find full information on how to contact Lufthansa.   Deutsche Lufthansa AG Lufthansa Group Communications Lufthansa Aviation Center 60546 Frankfurt am Main Germany E-mail: lufthansa-group@dlh.de Balance is a registered title.  May 2012 www.lufthansa.com/responsibility