CSR Communication on Progress 2011 CSR CoP 20 11 Our full CSR CoP 2011 experience is available.   Visit csrr.adecco.com  Contents   3  The Adecco Group   7  Message from the CEO   9  Our business and CSR   12  Our corporate social responsibility   14  Selected CSR activities 2011/2012   26  GRI content index   32  Further reading   35  Glossary   38  CSR Governance   40  Imprint  The  Adecco Group We inspire individuals and organisations to work more effectively and   efficiently, and create greater choice in the domain of work, for the benefit of  all concerned. As the worlds leading provider of HR solutions – a business   that has a positive impact on millions of people every day – we are conscious  of our global role. 3 CSR CoP 2011  Key figures Revenues  in EUR billions EBITA   in EUR millions Net income attributable   to Adecco shareholders   in EUR millions Employees FTE (year-end)   in thousands 21.1  20.0  14.8  18.7  20.5 1,081  908  299  722  814 735  495     8    423 519 37   34   28   32   33 07  08  09  10  11 07  08  09  10  11 07  08  09  10  11 07  08  09  10  11 France 24% North America 18% UK & Ireland 4% Japan 9% Germany & Austria 12% Benelux 5% Italy 7% Nordics 2% Iberia 3% Australia & New Zealand 2% Switzerland 5% Emerging Markets 5% LHH 4% 2011 Revenue split by business line in % 2011 Revenue split by segment in % France 30% North America 18% UK & Ireland 8% Japan 7% Germany & Austria 7% Benelux 5% Italy 5% Nordics 4% Iberia 4% Australia & New Zealand 2% Switzerland 2% Emerging Markets 7% LHH 1% 2011 EBITA split by segment in %   (operating units) Office 26%  Industrial 52% Information Technology 11% Engineering & Technical 5% Finance & Legal 3% Medical & Science 2% Solutions 1% Full-TImE EquIvAlENT  EmployEEs 1 AssocIATEs oN   AssIgNmENT dAIly 2 clIENTs  EvERy dAy 2 BRANcHEs IN ovER 60   couNTRIEs & TERRIToRIEs 1 33,000+ 5,500+ 700,000+ 100,000+ 1 Year-end 2011 2 Average 2011  for the fiscal years in EUR millions (except shares) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 statement of operations data Revenues 20,545  18,656   14,797  19,965 21,090 Gross profit 3,566 3,329 2,649 3,673 3,927 EBITA 4 814 722 299 908 1,081 Net income attributable to Adecco shareholders 519 423 8 495 735 other financial indicators Cash flow from operating activities 524 455 477 1,054 1,062 Free cash flow 5  415 350 385 948 971 Net debt 6 892 751 110 617 866 Key ratios (as % of revenues) Gross margin 17.4% 17.8% 17.9% 18.4% 18.6% SG&A ratio 7 13.4% 14.0% 15.9% 13.8% 13.5% EBITA margin 4.0% 3.9% 2.0% 4.5% 5.1% per share figures Basic EPS in EUR 2.72 2.20 0.04 2.82 3.97 Diluted EPS in EUR 2.72 2.17 0.04 2.71 3.80 Cash dividend in CHF 1.80 8 1.10 0.75 1.50 1.50 Number of shares Basic weighted-average shares 190,671,723  192,113,079   177,606,816  175,414,832 185,107,346 Diluted weighted-average shares 190,805,080  195,596,325   177,613,991  184,859,650 195,279,053 Outstanding (year-end) 170,448,401 174,702,026  174,079,431  174,188,402 182,647,293 Tickers SWX Europe ADEN Bloomberg ADEN VX Reuters ADEN.VX ISIN CH0012138605 Historical data 3 SMI and Basket of competitors (Manpower, Randstad and Kelly Services market capitalisation weighted in CHF) relative to Adeccos share price: 1.1.2011 = CHF 61.25. 4 EBITA is a non-U.S. GAAP measure and is defined herein as operating income before amortisation of intangible assets and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets. 5 Free cash flow is a non-U.S. GAAP measure and is defined herein as cash flow from operating activities minus capital expenditures. 6 Net debt is a non-U.S. GAAP measure and comprises short-term and long-term debt, less cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. 7 Excluding amortisation of intangible assets and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets. 8 Proposed by the Board of Directors.   share price performance comparison 2011  in CHF Basket of competitors 3 Adecco SMI 3 Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec 40 60 80   20 share information share price in CHF 	 Year-end 39.35 	 Average 49.84 	 High/low 66.05/32.15  Our business at a glance   Office    Industrial   Information Technology   Engineering & Technical   Finance & Legal   Medical & Science   Managed Services    Programmes (MSP)   Recruitment Process    Outsourcing (RPO)   Vendor Management     System (VMS)   Outplacement   Leadership Development   Career Development   Change Management     Solutions    Training   Consulting TEmpoRARy ANd pERmANENT sTAFFINg sERvIcEs HR pRocEss mANAgEmENT soluTIoNs General Staffing Workforce Management   Solutions Professional Staffing Career Transition & Talent  Development Solutions Adecco group HR solutions and services 6 CSR CoP 2011  Dear stakeholder, Helping people to achieve better work, better life is our com- mon purpose and defines how we contribute to society every  day. Work is a source of dignity. It gives people a sense of   purpose and belonging.  We recognise work as a basic need and right, and the foun- dation of personal, family and societal well-being. Helping   millions of associates find their best possible job as well as  building talented, flexible teams for companies is a motivating  force for Adecco employees. We reinforce this role through   our CSR strategy centred upon Integration, Skills and Excel- lence. This is explained in depth in our full 2010 CSR Report  and updated upon in this Communication on Progress 2011. Ongoing economic uncertainty brings into sharp focus our  commitment to enable better work, better life. We are experi- encing high and rising unemployment, particularly amongst  young people, as well as jobless recoveries. At the same time,  talent shortages are growing in markets as diverse as the US  and China. This paradox reflects widespread skill mismatches  between education/training systems and the needs of the  labour market. We can clearly see that there is an underlying  structural labour market crisis as well as economic challenges  which need to be addressed. As the global leader of HR Solutions, we accept our responsi- bility to take action and also partner others in a drive to tackle  these issues and improve the world of work. Some of these  initiatives are reflected in our latest highlights: progress highlights  Our REDvolucin project began in Spain, supporting our Inte- gration efforts for those excluded from the workforce. Adecco  employees took to the streets to offer 70,000 people practical  job-finding support, including local workshops; as official   Message from the CEO recruitment provider to the upcoming London Olympic Games,  we have created a Disability Talent Pool to guarantee inter- view and job opportunities for disabled applicants; we also  extended our involvement in a global series of workshops with  the ILO International Business and Disability Network. A new aspect of our activities to help people acquire Skills   is our leading role in Unlocking Britains Potential campaign,  including an action to help businesses to foster closer links  with schools, therefore bridging the gap between education  and work; we are participating in the 2012 European Year of  Active Ageing through the Golden Workers project, helping  mature workers gain IT skills needed for employment; in   addition, over 17,000 of our employees volunteered their time   to cycle in our Win4Youth initiative, raising a large donation   to charitable foundations helping young people acquire skills  for a better life. Our recent CSR activities focused upon Excellence involve  meeting increased expectations of clients and reporting in-  dices in regard to our environmental, social and governance  (ESG) performance: in 2011, Adecco became a constituent of  the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) World & Europe;  we were amongst the top 250 companies of the 2011 News- week Green Rankings; our Carbon Disclose ranking improved.  Not least, Adecco again met the corporate responsibility  standards of the FTSE4Good Index Series. Linking our environmental Excellence to Integration, we   participated in the United Nations Environmental Programme  (UNEP) conference on Green Jobs for Youth. In support of our  sustainable business success, we also launched the Adecco  Academy, thus strengthening our Groups global training and  development programmes.  7 CSR CoP 2011  our role  As the global industry leader, we feel it is our job to improve  the world of work. We use our expertise to shape the industry  agenda and bring innovative workforce solutions in order to  broaden work opportunities for millions of people. Our CSR  strategy of Integration, Skills and Excellence brings added in- tensity to our core commitment to enable better work, better  life for the benefit of all our stakeholders.  Thank you for reading our Communication on Progress. patrick de maeseneire  Chief Executive Officer  8 CSR CoP 2011  Our business and CSR We unlock potential for individuals, businesses and economies   reinforced by our CSR strategy centred upon Excellence,   Integration and Skills. How CSR relates to our business In our global organisation, spanning over 60 countries, a   concerted managed approach to CSR is required. CSR is rec- ognised as an integral part of our business by the Board of  Directors and by the Executive Committee. Our programmes  and activities are a designated responsibility of management  throughout our business operations.  We communicate and report regularly to meet our internal  and external stakeholders expectations. We respond to the  Dow Jones Sustainability Assessment, the Carbon Disclosure  Project, and the FTS4Good Index Series. We also submit our  Communication on Progress (CoP) on a yearly basis to the   UN Global Compact and apply the Global Reporting Initiative  GRI Guidelines.    Our responsibility – as the market leader in HR services – is to  unlock and match existing potential on both sides. Work is the  foundation of personal and family life, corporate and organ-  isational success, social stability and economic development.  Work is a basic need and should be a basic right of all people.  Choice in the domain of work supports people to develop and  apply their talents and it gives a purpose to peoples lives by  building a sense of inclusion in society.  prioritising activities  Adecco Group: three main global programmes   in our strategic areas Integration skills Excellence Sustainable  workplace stakeholders   Employees   Customers & Shareholders   Society global programmes  Excellence Excellence Awards Integration IOC Athlete Career Programme  IPC Athlete Career Programme skills Win4Youth Executive committee Experts groups CEO Adecco Group Head Group   Communications Board of directors Corporate Governance Committee 9 CSR CoP 2011  Our stakeholders Our stakeholder groups are manifold reflecting the pervading  importance of work. Amongst our employees and associates,  all socio-economic backgrounds, ages and abilities are repre- sented. The spectrum of roles and occupations we offer is  vast, as is the diversity of our client base. This encompasses  industry sectors such as Office, Industrial, IT, Engineering &  Technical, Finance & Legal, Medical & Science, HR Process  Management, including Career Transition and Talent Develop- ment Solutions. Our services and knowledge around work  brings us into constructive dialogue with governments, labour  organisations and related bodies such as the UN, the ILO, the  EU and national staffing federations, amongst others. Through  established partnerships and activities with leading universi- ties such as INSEAD, IMD, LBS and other academies around  the world, we are a key source for individuals, organisations  and governments seeking to understand and shape the future  of work. We strive for an open dialogue with the financial  community and the media to enhance understanding of our  business. This involves explaining our business and implied  risks as well as opportunities through the release of our com- prehensive quarterly results and through meetings with our  management at roadshows, industry and market conferences. Being a service sector industry with a network of over 5,500  offices in more than 60 countries, we consider our environ- mental impact to be relatively minor. However, we are con- scious of the increasing importance of reducing our Carbon  Footprint and have implemented an emission calculator to  measure and reduce our impact within our major markets.  With this report, we provide an overview of our three-pillar CSR  strategy centred upon Excellence, Integration and Skills. How HR services benefit labour markets  AdEcco gRoup Enterprises Economies Individuals 10 CSR CoP 2011  The concerns we learn  from stakeholder dia- logue, surveys and  scientific research help us  priorising our CSR core  subjects and issues (see  materiality matrix). our main stakeholder groups concerns   our employees  Employees, candidates and associates, all socio-economic back- grounds, ages and abilities 	Work as income, fulfilment of a dream, as a basis for indepen- dence 	Work as basic need, which often is difficult to meet 	Work as opportunity, as pathway into a personal future 	Work as social value, which creates and foments relationships our clients Small and large, private and public employers   from all industry sectors 	Human Resources management as a key factor for competitive  ability and growth 	Top talents for top jobs 	The right person at the right time 	Flexibility in the ever evolving markets  our investors Individual and institutional investors,   analysts and stock market index providers 	Profitability and return on investment 	Sustainable growth 	Corporate Governance 	Risks and opportunities 	Socially and environmentally responsible investments society at large Communities, governments and related bodies, media,   research institutes, etc. 	Employment rates  	Equal opportunities  	Work as social integration for vulnerable groups 	Undeclared work as burden for social costs 	Decent work conditions our main stakeholder groups and their major concerns (blue = corresponding to UN Global Compact principles) stakeholder concern Environment 	Resource use 	Climate change Community involvement 	Labour integration 	Job creation 	Income creation Human rights 	Discrimination &  vulnerable groups 	Fundamental   rights at work Labour practices 	Human development 	Health & safety 	Decent work   conditions Fair operating practices 	Fair competition 	Anti-corruption Consumer issues (HR services do not  relate to consumers  but to employees and  corporate clients) significance & relevance for Adecco group High High Low How we prioritise the ISO  26000 core subjects and  issues related to our  business and the con- cerns of our stakeholders.  Based on this, we  designed our three  operational focus areas  (see chart on page 13). materiality matrix (blue = corresponding to UN Global Compact principles) 11 CSR CoP 2011  We unlock potential for individuals, businesses and economies reinforced   by our CSR strategy centred upon Excellence, Integration and Skills.   For more information, read our latest CSR Report: csrr.adecco.com Our corporate social  responsibility  Unlocking potential At Adecco, we unlock potential in the domain of work for the  benefit of all stakeholders. Thanks to the commitment of more  than 33,000 employees, around 700,000 associates work  through Adecco every day, amounting to more than 3 million  people in the workforce each year.  Their income supports many families lives. Their talent, skills  and efforts contribute to the productivity and sustainable suc- cess of over 100,000 Adecco clients. Employment reduces the  welfare burden and enables people to contribute to society   at large. At the same time, it gives individuals independence,   a purpose and may even fulfil a dream.  Helping individuals and clients throughout their career and  business life cycle and optimising our positive impact without  compromise is our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR).   The Corporate Governance Committee and the CEO oversee   our CSR strategy which is focused on three pillars in the world  of work: Integration, Skills and Excellence.  A range of specific programmes and activities underpin each  pillar and are the designated responsibility of management  throughout our business operations. We submit our Commu- nication on Progress (CoP) on a yearly basis to the UN Global  Compact and apply the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Guide- lines for our CSR reporting. In 2011, the Adecco Group became  a constituent of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI)  World and Europe.  The effectiveness, efficiency and choice that we bring to the  world of work are exemplified by a number of highlights   presented here.  Integration Integrating people into the workforce through  temporary work is a central part of our business. Jobs offer  people work experience and an income. Consecutive assign- ments provide people with diverse work experiences and   environments and enhance their adaptability to different roles  and teams. In many cases, they are a stepping stone to a per- manent position for individuals who otherwise could become  marginalised. 37% of all temporary workers are officially   registered as unemployed before working with an agency.  This proportion falls to less than half that level (15%) twelve  months after working as an agency worker 1.  Adecco is involved in various public-private initiatives such as  the ILO Global Business and Disability Network relaunched in  2011 and the Golden Workers project. The latter was started in  October 2011 and is one of several initiatives that have been  undertaken by the EU Commission in support of the Year of  Active Ageing and Solidarity between Generations 2012. The  main goal of Golden Workers is to identify emerging technolo- gies and socio-economic trends, new models of extending  professional active life and novel application scenarios in the  area of Information and Communications Technology (ICT) for  active ageing at work.  A centrepiece of our integration efforts is the IOC and the IPC  Athlete Career Programmes. The International Olympic Com- mittee (IOC) and the International Paralympic Committee (IPC)  Athlete Career Programmes are designed to help high-  performing athletes, as well as Olympians and Paralympians,  to address their education, life skills and employment needs in  order to enhance their prospects for success beyond competi- tion. The focus of Adeccos role is to provide career develop- ment and job placement support to help ease the challenges  that athletes face while they transition into the workforce.  Adecco also works with employers to help them identify and  understand the qualities athletes can bring to their business.  The programmes have been in place since 2005 (IOC) and  2007 (IPC) respectively, reaching out to more than 8,500 Olympic  and Paralympic athletes around the world. New landmarks  were achieved in 2011 with the participation of more than  2,000 athletes in the programme. Adecco has hired athletes  from 13 countries, being a strong believer in the transferable  1  Source: Ciett Economic Report 2011. 12 CSR CoP 2011  skills athletes can bring to the corporate world. Strengthening  the Olympic Movements responsible approach to athletes, the  IOC in cooperation with Adecco also delivered career develop- ment advice to over 250 young athletes and volunteers during  the 1st Winter Youth Olympic Games in Innsbruck in January 2012.  As Official Recruitment Services Provider to London 2012, Adecco  UK & Ireland is working as an integral part of the London Or- ganising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games   (LOCOG) to achieve the commitment for the Games to be the  most diverse and inclusive ever. By the time the Games start,  Adecco UK & Ireland will have recruited 7,000 people. skills The acquisition and ongoing development of skills is a  passport to employment, income and a sustainable career.  Providing and guiding our associates, as well as employees,   to suitable training and development opportunities is an   essential part of our business approach.  Helping disadvantaged people acquire the skills they need   is a real passion that unites the Adecco Group. This is high- lighted by the participation of 16,500 employees in our 2011  Win4Youth initiative. At more than 2,300 events in 63 coun- tries, our employees and 4,000 clients cycled a total of  1,565,528 kilo metres. Over 84,000 kilometres of this total were  achieved during our worldwide Solidarity Day raising funds for  the victims of the Japanese earthquake and tsunami.  For every 5 kilometres completed – on road bike or even spin- ning machine – the Adecco Group donated USD 1 to a grand  total which was shared between three foundations: Brazil –  Social Circus in Rio de Janeiro; Philippines – The Cebu boys  home; and in Greece we supported The Smile of the Child  dedicated to providing community homes giving shelter and  safety to children. The highlight of the 2011 project – which  built upon a running-themed Win4Youth project in 2010 – was   the successful cycling ascent of Mont Ventoux in France by   74 employees from around the world.  Excellence Striving for and measuring excellence is central to  our ethos and operational practices. It enables us to sustain  our business success and industry leadership but at the same  time furthers our team spirit and maximises our positive contri- bution to society. Since October 2011, the Adecco Academy has  been running our Group development programmes aimed at  excellence in leadership, services & sales and operations. In 2011, we ran our third Adecco Group Excellence Awards.  Eight winning teams were recognised and rewarded for out- standing results achieved through applying our four core   values of team spirit, customer focus, responsibility and entre- preneurship. Whilst Adecco Eastern Europe was the overall  winner, Adecco Spain received an award in recognition of the  highest retention rate – one of Adecco Groups key strategic  priorities. Other winners included Adecco South America,  Adecco Italy, Adecco US Staffing, Tuja Germany, Adecco Brazil  and one of our international account teams.  Many of our advances in the social, economic and environ- mental aspects of the CSR arena were reflected in internation- ally recognised assessments in 2011. The Dow Jones Sustain- ability Index (DJSI), in cooperation with Sustainable Asset  Management (SAM), recognised the Adecco Group as one of  the sustainability leaders in the Industrial Goods and Services  sector based on performance across economic, environmental  and social criteria. Additionally, Adecco retained its inclusion  as a member company of the FTSE4Good Index,   the responsible investment index calculated by global index  provider FTSE Group in its Semi-Annual Review 2011. We were  named among the top 250 companies on the 2011 Newsweek  Green rankings. This is in step with our increased focus on   environmental performance which we track through the mycli- mate emission measuring platform and our involvement in the  Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Through our participation in  the World Economic Forum as a strategic partner, we support  the Forums commitment to improving the state of the world by  creating greater choice in the domain of work and by unlock- ing potential in individuals, enterprises and society in general.  Focus areas Iso 26000 csR core subjects and issues our key ambitions   Excellence Human rights  	Discrimination & vulnerable Groups  	Fundamental rights at work labour practices  	Health & safety  	Decent work conditions  Fair operating practices  	Fair competition  	Anti-corruption  Environment  	Resource use  	Climate change  	We stay alongside our clients, associates and employees  throughout their life cycle 	We are a great place to work 	Whatever we do: we act responsibly, to meet the highest  standards skills labour practices  	Human development 	Training 	Further training 	Unlocking potential 	We support people to apply talents and contribute to society 	We connect top talents with top jobs 	We offer a future with opportunities for personal development Integration community involvement  	Labour integration  	Work creation  	Income creation 	We see work as a basic needs, which should be a basic right for  all people 	We contribute to social integration of disadvantaged individuals 	We create new jobs 	We reduce unemployment our three operational focus areas address the material csR core subjects and issues  (blue = corresponding to UN Global Compact principles)   With our three focus areas,  we integrate the material  core subjects relevant to our  business from both – the UN  Global Compact and the ISO  26000 – throughout our  organisation and operations. 13 CSR CoP 2011  Milestones Selected CSR  activities 2011/2012 Integration Integrating people into the workforce through temporary work  is a central part of our business. Jobs offer people work ex-  perience and an income. Consecutive assignments provide  people with diverse work experiences and environments and  enhance their adaptability to different roles and teams. In  many cases, they are a stepping stone to a permanent posi- tion for individuals who otherwise could become marginal- ised. 37% of all temporary workers are officially registered as  unemployed before working with an agency. This proportion  falls to less than half that level (15%) twelve months after  working as an agency worker. The Ioc and Ipc Athlete career programme  A centrepiece of our integration efforts is the IOC and the IPC  Athlete Career Programmes. The International Olympic Com- mittee (IOC) and the International Paralympic Committee (IPC)  Athlete Career Programmes are designed to help high-per- forming athletes, as well as Olympians and Paralympians, to  address their education, life skills and employment needs in  order to enhance their prospects for success beyond competi- tion. The focus of Adeccos role is to provide career develop- ment and job placement support to help ease the challenges  that athletes face while they transition into the workforce. The  programmes have been in place since 2005 (IOC) and 2007   (IPC) respectively, reaching out to more than 10,000 Olympic  and Paralympic athletes from more than 100 countries with  career training and job placement. New landmarks were  achieved in 2011 with the participation of more than 2,000  athletes in the programme. On July 5, 2012, the International Olympic Committee (IOC)   underscored its firm commitment to the IOC Athlete Career. Programme (IOC ACP) by agreeing to an eight-year extension  of its cooperation agreement with the Adecco Group.   www.olympic.org/athletes-space  www.paralympic.org/athletes Ipc Inclusion summit during london 2012 In September 2012, during the Paralympic Summer Games in  London, Adecco together with the IPC is co-hosting the 2nd IPC  Academy Inclusion Summit. The event is a natural extension of  the current IPC ACP services as it will focus on inclusion and  accessibility from a community, sport, and labour perspective.  Adecco has focused on integrating Paralympic athletes and  people with disabilities into the workplace for many years with  many companies. The Summit represents an important oppor- tunity to share our experience in helping people with disabil-  ities to be able to integrate into the workforce and society. The  Inclusion Summit will be an opinion-leading debate with a  focus on inclusion and accessibility from a community, sport,  and labour perspective.   www.ipcinclusionsummit.com Annual Athlete participation in the Ioc and Ipc Athlete career  programme between 2006 and 2011 2500 2000 1500 1000 500   In Programm   Placed 06  07  08  09  10  11 14 CSR CoP 2011  Extended involvement with the global Ilo Business and   disability Network People with disabilities make up around 15% of the worlds  population. This amounts to over 1 billion people, making them  the largest minority group. As an employer of over 10,000 peo- ple with disabilities per year, we bring considerable experience  to the Global ILO Business and Disability Network through our  membership and role on the Steering Committee. The Network  is comprised of representatives from multinational enterprises,  employers organisations and business networks, and selected  non-governmental and disabled peoples organisations. It as- sists companies with the inclusion of people with disabilities  into the workforce from the perspectives of business and   human rights cases. The Network held a special session on June 11, 2012 in Gen-  eva, Switzerland, in order to formalize its structure, strategic  plan and membership commitments. This marks a significant  advance in the Network, moving on from its start point as  purely being an informal group of like-minded businesses and  employers organisations. The Networks event which was attended by several Heads of  States – took place during the 101st  session of the International  Labour Conference (ILC) of the ILO. It was a valuable opportun-  ity to raise the profile of the Network, increasing its visibility  among employers, unions and government representatives.  Global network meetings conducted since 2010 with Adeccos  participation include: Europe (Paris), US (New York), India  (Bangalore), Argentina (Buenos Aires) and South Africa (Jo- hannesburg). Watch the video. www.businessanddisability.org  olympic and paralympic games – Adecco uK & Ireland  helps achieve diversity for london 2012 In January 2009, the London Organising Committee of the  Olympic Games and Paralympic Games (LOCOG) named  Adecco UK & Ireland as their official recruitment services pro- vider. Rising to the challenge, Adecco UK & Ireland developed  a unique diversity tracking software that measures the six  streams of diversity (age, ethnicity, faith, gender, disability and  sexuality) in every department. Recognising that disability is a  major recruitment challenge, we devised a number of pro- grammes to assist with the process; including a guaranteed  interview scheme that helped candidates with the right skills  to get the best possible chance of a role in London 2012.  Adecco UK & Ireland also developed a disability talent pool  that ensures talented candidates with a disability – that may  not have been offered a role initially – are mentored and  tracked in case opportunities should arise. our charitable Foundations  Adecco Group and its Foundations – often in partnership with  respected organisations – are involved in a range of interna- tional, national and local programmes to help groups at risk  of exclusion from the workforce because of disabilities, age,  ethnicity or gender. Our Adecco Foundations in France, Italy and Spain are funded  by contributions from Adecco and other companies and or- ganisations committed to supporting our integration efforts. Adecco Foundation France, created in 2002: 	 Purpose: Assisting, supporting and training disadvantaged  people for labour integration.  	 Activities: Develop social partnerships with various non- profit organisations in three fields: education, career orien- tation and professional integration. As a result, every year,  50 non-profit organisations are supported and 200 Adecco  employees volunteer to participate in a local solidarity initia- tive. It also provides the French Athlete Career Programme  devoted to help Elite, Olympic and Paralympic athletes to  find their place in the labour market. people with disabilities integrated into the labour market  Information on number of individuals   Other business units   (DE, UK, AR, TW, JP, USA, etc.)   Adecco Belgium   Adecco Italy &   Adecco Foundation Italy   Adecco Spain &   Adecco Foundation Spain  Adia France  Adecco France 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 2007 2005 2004 2006 2008 2009 2010 2011 15 CSR CoP 2011  	 Employees: 5. 	 Annual donation by Adecco Groupe France: approximately  EUR 300,000. 	 Budget Foundation: EUR 550,000. Adecco Fondation Groupe France Adecco Foundation Italy, created in 2001: 	 Purpose: Assisting, supporting and training disadvantaged  people for labour integration.  	 Activities: The foundation runs several partnerships and ini- tiatives to integrate people with disabilities, single women  with family charge, long-time unemployed, people over   40, elite Olympic and Paralympic athletes. 	 Employees: 7. 	 Annual donation by Adecco Group Italy: approximately   EUR 500,000.  	 Budget Foundation (in kind donations): EUR 300,000. Adecco Fondazione   Adecco Foundation spain, created in 1999: 	 Purpose: Assisting, supporting and training disadvantaged  people for labour integration.  	 Activities: The foundation runs several partnerships and ini- tiatives. As a result, it finds employment for about 1,800 dis- abled people, over 230 single mothers, more than 670  people aged over 45, as well as 20 elite Olympic and Para- lympic athletes.  	 Employees: 78. 	 Annual donation by Adecco Group Spain: approximately  EUR 520,000.  	 Budget Foundation 2011: EUR 10,536,588. Adecco Fundacin country highlights at a glance REdvolucin project in spain During 2011,  over 5 million people – or close to 23 percent  of the working population – were out of work  in Spain. Adecco Spain took unprecedented  action on the streets of Spain on October 27,  2011. The aim was to use its expertise to help people unlock  their potential, make a step into work, and integrate into soci- ety in an innovative and high-impact way. Driven by the belief  that work is a fundamental right and a basic need, Adeccos  REDvolucin initiative focused upon combating Spains rising  unemployment. Adeccos branch network in Spain set up 300  hot spots around the country where 1,100 colleagues who  took to the streets for the day offered practical job-finding sup- port to 70,000 people. In addition, 500 workshops on interview  techniques and CV writing took place in November and   December across the nation with a total of 4,000 attendees. www.laredvolucionadecco.com Skills The acquisition and ongoing development of skills is a pass- port to employment, income and a sustainable career. Provid- ing and guiding our associates, as well as employees, to suit- able training and development opportunities is an essential  part of our business approach. global engagement Win4youth 2010 (cumulative)   1,565,528 Total distance in KM 400,000 200,000 600,000 1,000,000 1,400,000 800,000 1,200,000 1,600,000 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec 16 CSR CoP 2011  Win4youth helping young people succeed This global initia- tive which started back in 2010 gives all employees the oppor- tunity to cycle and raise funds that help give children and  young people in challenging situations a future. In 2011, we  reached an astounding 1,565,528 kilometres – cycled by over  16,500 colleagues and 4,000 clients at more than 2,300  events in 63 countries around the world. Over 84,000 kilome- tres of this total were achieved during our worldwide Solidarity  Day raising funds for the victims of the Japanese earthquake  and tsunami. A rounded-up figure of 330,000 US dollars was given to our  three foundations: 	 Se Essa Rua Fesse Minha (Brazil). www.seessarua.org.br 	 The Smile of the Child (Greece). www.hamogelo.gr 	 Roter Keil (Philippines). www.roterkeil.net Win4Youth 2012 was officially launched in January 2012 due to  our employees efforts in meeting the 2011 goal. In 2012, all  Adecco colleagues around the globe are swimming, cycling  and running for youth in order to foment great team spirit and  stay fit but most importantly to continue help youngsters get a  better start in life. Adecco has selected four new foundations in China, Morocco,  New Zealand and Belgium which will benefit from our  Win4Youth donation in 2012. Marc Herremans, the chosen godfather for the Win4Youth 2012  project, was twice Belgian Champion in triathlon over an Olym- pic distance. In 2001, he came in 6th at the Ironman of Hawaii  – the toughest triathlon competition in the world. His dream  was to one day win the Ironman, and despite a terrible acci- dent which left him paraplegic, he never gave up on that  dream. He was the first wheelchair athlete to cross the finish  line at the Ironman of Hawaii in 2006 at the age of 33. We  have a godfather who is a true inspiration – in sport and in life.  Read more  Adecco Academy – service Excellence course   The Academy, launched at our Management Conference in  January 2011 has started with courses to train thousands of  colleagues each year, at various levels and with various areas  of focus. Colleagues from Germany, Spain, Italy, France and  the UK, attended the first Service Excellence course in October  2011 in Zurich. It was all about unlocking the desire and exper- tise to become more customer service oriented. Participants  explored their behaviours and their impact on the perception  of service – it is all about awareness and choices. The design  and development phase involved interviewing 136 customers  from 14 different countries to include their needs, expectations  and even desires in the course content. We aim to create con- sistency across the globe to provide our customers with a  great experience. No matter which branch a client or associ- ate makes contact with, he or she will know that it is Adecco  and that the service received is the great experience he or she  can expect from the worlds leading provider in HR solutions.  Sessions are a blend of breakout workgroups conducted in  either English, French, German, Spanish or Italian and plenary  sessions with all languages groups together. In 2012, a total of  10 Service Excellence Courses will take place in Asia, Australia,  North America and Europe. unlocking Britains potential campaign launched in 2011  This major initiative facilitated by Adecco Group UK was de- signed to engage UK business, Government and broader  stakeholders in the debate on the action needed to realise the  full potential of the UK workforce. We engaged with some of  the most forward-thinking, insightful and yet practical busi- ness leaders, HR practitioners and key stakeholders, hosting  100 80 60 40 20 5+ 1–2 3–5 76 26 21 17 CSR CoP 2011 Hours of training by tenure Caption: Training hours per year per colleague in 2011 by tenure (years of employment).   81% of all training comes from a classroom environment vs. 19% online.  four roundtable events during April, May and June 2011. Each  event focused on one of four key workplace topics for the   future – education, technology, engagement and diversity.  The initiative culminated in the conference held in London in  February 2012, where we launched our Ten Point Plan (see  under Further Reading).  www.unlockingbritainspotential.co.uk/   The golden Workers   project – building   a roadmap for IcT  2012 has been designated by  the European Commission as the European Year for Active  Ageing and Solidarity between Generations. The objective of  the Golden Workers project is to help mature workers gain IT  skills needed for employment. Through the Adecco Foundation  Spain and Adecco Group, we are part of the Golden Workers  Consortium and specifically contribute to the evaluation of  results, workshop organisation and participation, experts con- sultation, study dissemination, media approach, our expertise  in the integration of the mature workforce to develop topics  like: expertise on job places, environment analysis, labour  market tendencies, human resources experience, companies  requirements, social exclusion issues, foresight analysis. The pro- ject has started in October 2011 and will end in December 2012.  www.goldenworkers.org  Jobs for youth, skills for companies As a summit partner of the European Business Summit, we  participated in the Jobs for Youth, Skills for Companies open  forum session in April 2012. A dual education system com- bines apprenticeships in a host company and vocational edu- cation at a vocational school in one course. This system has a  long tradition in several countries, e.g. Germany, Austria,   Switzerland, the Netherlands, Denmark and Norway. It has  also been introduced, e.g. in the Czech Republic, France, Hun- gary, Ireland, Poland and the United Kingdom. The dual edu- cation systems offer a great variety of apprenticeship occupa- tions. In Switzerland, there are around 230 occupations to  choose from, in Germany more than 350. The precise skills  and theory taught are generally strictly regulated and defined  by national standards. The dual education systems create  jobs for youth and provide the skills European companies  need to remain innovative and competitive. For more informa- tion, look at the Adecco Group White Paper: Two worlds   collide? Bringing Copenhagen to Bologna (see under Further  Reading).  country highlights at a glance Jardines de cosecha in Argentina Jardines de Cosecha is a programme which contributes to  the prevention and elimination of agricultural child labour. The  programme grew out of the request from working mothers  who, during harvest, do not have appropriate places to leave  their children, thus being forced to take them to work. Adecco  Argentina has created child care opportunities where the  workers children receive food and emotional support as well  as recreational activities including medical assistance. So far, the accomplishments include: 	 The creation of 11 Jardines de Cosecha in Salta, Jujuy (To- bacco harvest) and Tucumn (Lemon harvest), Mendoza  (Vine harvest), where children can be a safe learning envir-  onment whilst their mothers work. 	 1300 children have been attended through the project. 	 Social work was carried out with 550 rural families.  	 10 work teams were created in order to train over 90 teach- ers which all led to job creation and employment for   teachers, child care and maintenance personnel. The ILO praised the programme as a model of public-private  partnership. A video is available on Jardines de Cosecha.  germany: children learn for their occupational future   Adecco Group Germany through its cooperation with the char- itable association Brotzeit e.V., which supports underprivi- leged children with breakfast and tutorial support, came up  with a new project on how to get children engaged with the  world of work. The Adecco-Brotzeit initiative introduces young- sters to apprenticeship programmes at the Adecco training  center TRAINICO. Trainico GmbH is a leading provider of tech- nical and commercial training for the aviation industry in Ger- many. Over 2,300 people aged between 25 and 50 graduate  each year on Trainico certified courses. A remarkable 92% of  graduates from long-term training courses obtain work after  their course, reflecting the targeted approach of training to  address growing skill shortages. Already plans are underway  to extend Trainicos offer outside the aviation industry and  place it at the heart of the training, education and professional  placement offer of the Adecco Group Germany and its brands.  Through the scheme, DIS AG pays the apprentice salary and  acts as mentor, helping them acquire valuable skills and qual- ifications and enhance employment prospects.   www.brotzeitfuerkinder.com  Watch the video. 18 CSR CoP 2011  Adecco Japan puts emphasis on early career education Our colleagues in Japan launched a programme called Car-  eer education for the next generation in 2011. At local elem- entary schools, classes were conducted with the objective to  provide young children with the opportunity to get in touch  with different professions at an early stage. The classes were  taught through role plays by Adecco colleagues from the sales  and planning departments.  Adecco sweden joins network to reduce youth unemploy- ment In order to support youngsters in Sweden, Adecco  joined a network initiated by Metro newspaper: Metro Future  Stars. The network aims to reduce youth unemployment and  reaches out to young professionals in particular. Jointly with  the other companies in the network, Adecco looks to employ  the young people supporting them with: CVs, interview train- ing including feedback and the whole process which is re- quired to apply for a job.  Excellence Successful business operations imply we can help more indi- viduals in their working careers and provide the flexibility and  efficiency companies need for sustainable success and to cre- ate employment opportunities. Excellence means achieving  outstanding performances whilst applying our core values of  Team Spirit, Customer Focus, Responsibility and Entrepreneur- ship as well as our leadership principles: Cool Head, Warm  Heart and Working Hands. our values Team Spirit, Customer Focus, Responsibility and  Entrepreneurship are the principles guiding all that we do.  	 Team spirit Our work and best-practice exchange is based  on mutual respect and trust. We cooperate across bounda- ries, branches and disciplines. Team, trust and talent are  our keywords.  	 customer Focus Our expertise lies in customising solu- tions and connecting the right people. We are committed to  building long-term partnerships with our employees, asso- ciates and clients. The focus on people with a Warm Heart,  Cool Head and Working Hands is our core competence.  	 Responsibility Our integrity leads to better work, better   life – and to a sustainable future. We are honest and fair  partners to our stakeholders at all times. Promoting fair- ness, diversity, and equality is our corporate legacy.  	 Entrepreneurship Our passion is to lead through enterprise  and innovation. We encourage initiative in decision-making  and creative solutions. Our aim is always to go the extra  mile. Excellence Awards   In 2011, we ran our third Adecco Group Excellence Awards.  Eight winning teams were recognised and rewarded for out- standing results achieved through applying our four core val- ues of Team Spirit, Customer Focus, Responsibility and Entre- preneurship. Whilst Adecco Eastern Europe was the overall  winner, Adecco Spain received an award in recognition of the  highest retention rate – one of Adecco Groups key strategic  priorities. Other winners included Adecco South America,  Adecco Italy, Adecco US Staffing, Tuja Germany, Adecco Brazil  and one of our international account teams. 19 CSR CoP 2011  Acknowledgements of our Social  Responsibility – indices and funds Adecco added to the dow Jones sustainability Index (dJsI).  In 2011, the DJSI, in cooperation with Sustainable Asset Man- agement (SAM), recognised the Adecco Group as one of the  sustainability leaders in the Industrial Goods and Services   sector. Adecco was compared to almost 1,500 of the largest  companies worldwide. The assessment consists of an in- depth analysis of the companies performance across eco- nomic, environmental and social criteria such as corporate  governance, environmental risks and stakeholder relations. 1  The Adecco Group is included in the following sustainable investment indices, which select constituents by assessing  environmental, social and governance criteria (further infor- mation at http://www.sustainable-investment.org/). 	 DJSI World  www.sustainability-indexes.com 	 DJSI Europe  www.sustainability-indexes.com 	 FTSE4GOOD Global Index  www.ftse.com/ftse4good 	 FTSE4GOOD Europe Index  www.ftse.com/ftse4good 	 ECPI Ethical Index Global  www.e-cpartners.com 	 ECPI Ethical Index Euro  www.e-cpartners.com 	 ESI Excellence Europe  www.ethibel.org 	 DAXglobal Sarasin Sustainability Switzerland  www.sarasin.ch 	 Pictet-Ethos Swiss Sustainable Equities Fund  www.pictetfunds.com 	 Natixis Impact Europe Equities Fund  www.am.natixis.com/ 	 Vontobel Fund – Global Responsibility Swiss Equity  www.vontobel.com other ratings we have received: Enhanced rating in the carbon disclose project (cdp):   Adeccos efforts in measuring and reporting its greenhouse  gas emissions were acknowldegded in CDP's evaluations  2011: Adecco improved from Band C (low / improvable) to B  (middle/appreciation). BIlANZ magazine csR rating 2011 – Adecco scores high: The business magazine BILANZ in cooperation with Inrate, an  independent sustainability rating agency based in Switzer- land, rated 20 companies of the Swiss Market Index (SMI)  comparing them against 1,800 international companies from  the same sector. As a basis for the rating, 100 criteria were  defined and the ratings went from -6 to (least) to +6 (best).  Adecco reached grade +5 and came in the top 5.  Adecco has been named among the top 250 companies on  the 2011 NEWsWEEK gREEN RANKINgs global list. Newsweeks Green Rankings cut through the green chatter  and compare the actual environmental footprints, manage- ment (policies, programmes, initiatives, controversies), and  reporting practices of big companies. Newsweek teamed up  with two leading research organisations, Trucost and Sustain- alytics to create the most comprehensive rankings available.  Newsweek ran its first Green Rankings two years ago for the  first time. 1  Source: Press release 	  	  	  	  	  20 CSR CoP 2011  csR achievements in morocco and Tunisia  Adecco Morocco is the first temporary work and recruitment  company to receive the CGEM label that acknowledges their  Corporate Social Responsibility policy. Adecco Morocco sees its social responsibility policy approved  by receiving the CGEM label (Confdration Gnrale des En- treprises du Maroc, i.e. General Confederation of Moroccan  Enterprises). Jrick Develle, General Manager of Adecco Mo- rocco, and his team are acknowledged for putting the indi- vidual at the heart of the recruitment process. On September 12, 2011, Adecco Tunisia achieved ISO 26000  certified by Vigeo. Adecco group France assessed by Ecovadis In the 2011 assessement, Adecco Group France reached a  total score of 7 out of 10 points. This is 1 point above average  of the temporary employment agency activities industry. The  assessment reviewed environmental, labour, fair business and  supply chain policies and practices. safety at work The Adecco Group strives to prevent acci- dents, injuries and diseases in the workplace. Recognising the  risks, our associates are exposed to when entering new and  unfamiliar workplaces, the Adecco Group meets all statutory  health and safety obligations.  our occupational accidents decrease In order to ensure a  fair basis for comparison of our safety performance among  our country organisations, we look at the development of   accident frequency rates (AFR), rather than comparing abso- lute AFR values. This is due to the fact that our involvement in  the various business sectors – and thus various risk potentials  – varies significantly from subsidiary to subsidiary.  preventing accidents and diseases Our standard measures  vary from country to country. The five main elements are:  1. Health and safety coordinators and committees We have  formal joint management-worker health and safety commit- tees in several countries.  2. Risk assessment in the workplace Before placing our em- ployees, we conduct workplace health and safety due dili- gence checks on clients premises, with regular follow-ups  thereafter.  3. Employee testing, training and induction In all countries,  training or briefing in accident prevention is most commonly  available to our associates in the construction or industrial  sector. The actual briefing or training sessions are usually car- ried out either directly by the clients or by Adecco.  4. medical checks In accordance with local regulations, we  conduct preliminary and periodic medical health checks,  geared to the respective assignment, to protect associates  health in high-risk working environments.  5. personal protection equipment By contractual agreement  with clients, the Adecco Group or the clients themselves supply  our associates with personal safety and protection equipment. Accident frequency rates     Adecco Australia   Adecco Belgium   Adecco France   Adia France   Tuja Germany   DIS Germany   Adecco Japan   Netherlands   Adecco Norway   Adecco Sweden   Adecco Switzerland   Adecco UK   Adecco USA  1.4  1.2  1.0  0.8  0.6  0.4  0.2  0    2008  2009  2010  2011 Australia Belgium France Adecco France Adia Germany Tuja Germany DIS Japan Netherlands Norway Sweden Switzerland UK USA 21 CSR CoP 2011  Eu renewed csR strategy 2011–2014  Adecco fully supports the European Commission Communica- tion on a Renewed Strategy 2011–2014 for Corporate Social  Responsibility as published in October 2011 in order to create  conditions favourable to sustainable growth, responsible busi- ness behaviour and durable employment generation in the  medium and long term. Especially the need to give greater  attention to human rights and to contribute to implement John  Ruggies Principles (Protect, Respect & Remedy) is one impor- tant part of the Renewed Strategy 2011–2014. We strongly wel- come the Commissions decision to develop sector-specific  guidance to further enforce compliance regarding human and  Labour Rights and anti-corruption for the employment and  recruitment sector. If developed and implemented effectively,  this guidance will be extremely valuable in promoting compre- hensive, improved corporate responsibility practices in our  sector, in qualitative and quantitative terms. Read more EuRocIETT-uNI Europa project on Transitions in the labour  market As an actively involved EUROCIETT member, Adecco  has been contributing to the Report Temporary Agency Work  and Transitions in the Labour Market under the funding and  guidance of the EU Commission researched and in coordina- tion with the German Institute Wilke, Maack und Partner. The  report is due to be published at the end of 2012. Its focus lies  on how temporary agency work can contribute to facilitating  the transitions in the labour market while at the same time  fostering progression in the career paths of agency workers in  line with the concept of making transitions pay. Additionally it  illustrates the added value of social partnerships, assessing  the potential of practice transfer and learning effects for other  countries and looking at the impact on working and employ- ment conditions, labour market transitions.  Read more Human Rights guidance for Employment & Recruitment  Agencies sector Shift and the Institute for Human Rights and  Business (IHRB) in a joint project with the European Commis- sion are to develop human rights guidance for the Employ- ment and Recruitment Agencies sector as a member of the  projects multi-stakeholder Employment and Recruitment  Agencies Sector Advisory Group.  The European Commission identified the development of guid- ance on the corporate responsibility to respect human rights  under the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human  Rights as one of its priority actions in its recent communication  on corporate social responsibility. Shift and IHRB were selected  to carry out the project over the course of 2012, including the  recommendation on the sectors to be addressed, and now in  developing the guidance for the three sectors chosen by the  Commission: Employment and Recruitment Agencies, ICT, and  Oil and Gas. Adecco, involved through its industry confederation CIETT, has  provided input on the Discussion Paper for the Employment  and Recruitment Agencies Sector Roundtable. We are currently undertaking and are involved in several ini- tiatives through CIETT and its engagement with the EU Com- mission to develop guidance for the sector. This will support  us in implementing a meaningful policy on Human and   Labour Rights, a system to monitor compliance and auditing  of non-compliance within the Adecco Group. Read more   In November 2003, the Adecco Group became the first com- pany in its industry to sing the United Nations Global Compact  (UNGC). This public endorsement underlines Adeccos adher- ence to: 	 UN Charter of Human Rights 	 ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at  work 	 ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multina- tional Enterprises and Social Policy 	 OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Adecco colombia & Human Rights As one of the Countries  of Concern, Adecco in Colombia engaged in a multi stake- holder initiative foreseen as a measure within the Free Trade  Agreement between the Columbian and the Swiss Govern- ment, at the end of 2011. Various companies, the Swiss and  the Columbian Government, an NGO Fundacin Ideas para   la paz signed the compromiso tico, focusing on the respect  of Human Rights by the adhering companies and organisa- tions. Since beginning of 2012, two meetings took place, with  the first meeting in April focusing on explaining the concept  and importance of International Humanitarian Law and the  second meeting focused on the Guas Colombia on Human  Rights and International Humanitarian Law which was led by  the NGO Fundacin Ideas para la paz.  New cIETT strategy – The Way to Work At the CIETT World  Employment Conference staged in London in May 2012, CIETT  launched The way to work: A job for every person, a person  for every job as the new vision brought to life for the private  employment services (PrES) industry. Building on the Adapting  to Change report, CIETT is taking the industry to a next level. In  May 2012, CIETT unveiled the industrys commitment to better  functioning labour markets through the 5 pledges Ciett mem- bers will undertake at the global level, over the next 5 years: 	 Support 280 million people in their job life 	 Help 75 million young people enter the labour market 	 Upskill 65 million people, giving them more work choices 	 Create 18 million more jobs 	 Serve 13 million companies with the right talents to succeed 22 CSR CoP 2011  The Way to Work - A job for every person, a person for every job As a corporate member of CIETT, Adecco strongly supports the  industry pledges to improve the global labour market by sup- porting millions of people and companies. Read more World Economic Forum WEF – Adecco steps up engagement  to strategy partner In January 2012, the Adecco Group took  part in the World Economic Forum in Davos for the first time  since becoming a Strategic Partner in December 2011. Job  creation was very high on the agenda of the Annual Meeting  and we were represented by our management in several ini- tiatives and on the panel of Future of Human Capital, Adecco  contributed to the Talent Mobility report as a member of the  Global Agenda Council and Steering Board on Skills & Talent  Mobility. As Strategic Partner, Adecco is also involved in a se- ries of regional WEFs such as the one for Latin America, East  Asia, Middle East, North Africa, and Eurasia, the WEF Annual  Meeting of New Champions in China, and the WEF India   Economic Summit in India with our local leaders to further   co-shape the agenda on job creation. g20 – B20 – l20 meetings in cannes, France, in 2011 and  los cabos, mexico, in 2012 Adecco for the first time joined  the few Companies to represent Business at the B20 Summit  in Cannes in November 2011. As a member of the Employ- ment and Social Dimension Working Group, Adecco was in- volved in the drafting of the Workings Groups Recommenda- tions, focusing on better functioning labour markets,  measures to stimulate job creation and the interaction be- tween social protection and job creation through social pro- tection floors. Adecco also participated in the first encounter  with global Trade Union representatives in the B20-L20 meet- ings, contributing to the B20-L20 Joint Statements on Employ- ment, Social Protection, Fundamental Principles and Rights at  Work and the coherence of actions in the multilateral system. Adecco spurred its contribution at the B20 in 2012 held in Los  Cabos, where the focus was put on finding solutions to Youth  Unemployment, building on the 2011 B20 Working Group Rec- ommendations. They emphasise the necessity to improve col- laboration between business and educational institutions and  the need to scale internships and apprenticeships to facilitate  transitions from school to work. Within the B20 – L20 efforts  driven also by Adecco, the Joint Statements were comple- mented by 2 Addendums on Developing Youth employment – Apprenticeships and Internships and Developing the formal  Economy. www.b20.org/employment.aspx supplier code of conduct and questionnaire The Adecco Group expects its suppliers, vendors, contractors  and other entities with whom we conduct business to apply at  least the same level of commitment towards responsible busi- ness practices, as we do. This responsible business practices  span across the ethical, social and environmental dimensions.  Therefore, we have launched a new Supplier Code of Conduct  together with a questionnaire which will be sent to our major  suppliers going forward. Adecco recognises the variety of   legal and cultural environment in which its suppliers operate.  However, our Supplier Code of Conduct should be understood  as the framework of minimum requirements, which are appli- cable in the vast majority of situations. The requirements set  forth in this Code of Conduct are linked to the UN Global Com- pacts ten principles, to which Adecco is a signatory since 2003. CIETT – The Voice of Labour Choice People – Quality, Freedom, Inclusiveness, Serving Support   280 million  people   in their job  life Help   75 million  young   people  enter the  labour   market Upskill   65 million  people Create   18 million  more jobs  for people Serve  13 million  companies    The Way to Work   A job for every person, for every job 23 CSR CoP 2011  our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions (Based on the Greenhous Gas Protocol)  source scope Emissions metric tonnes co2 e   (co2 equivalent) coverage extrapolated to group  level (% FTEs) data basis 1 (% of group FTEs) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Own business cars 1 (direct) 81,423 85,683  100% 100% 16.15% 14.5% Electricity 2 (indirect) 62,609 70,663 2 100% 100% 1 27.73% 24.9% Electricity  3 (indirect) 27,275 30,615 2 100% 100% 1 27.73% 24.9% Own business cars 3 (indirect) 45,989 46,631 100% 100% 16.15% 14.5% Rental cars 3 (indirect) 2,060 3 1,956 100% 100% 20.95% 22.1% Air travel 3 (indirect) 7,372 6,407 100% 100% 82.90% 4 72.0% 4 Paper 3 (indirect) 2,368 2,458 5 100% 100% 33.96% 11.5% Toner 3 (indirect) 596 642 5 100% 100% 33.96% 11.5% New lap & desktops 3 (indirect) 2,497 2,446 5 100% 100% 100% 100% More details on emissions and measurement methodology are provided in our Carb  Disclosure Project answers to be found under www.cdproject.net. our materials and water consumption (gRI indicator EN1)  Total consumption extrapolated to group level  (100% FTEs) data basis 1 (% of group FTEs)   2011 2010 2011 2010 material Paper (office supply, does not include printed matters) 1,845 metric tonnes 1,898 metric tonnes 4 33.96% 11.5% Toner (modelled from paper consumption) 185 kg 189 kg 33.96% 11.5% 1  The respective figures in the CSR Report 2010 based on a coverage of 78%, which could be raised to 100%.    Consequently, the emission values for 2010 could be restated accordingly. 2  Data stem from representative branches in FR, USA, UK, JP, DE, BE, NL, IT, NO, SW, ES, CH. 3  Data extrapolated from 2010 to 2011, as for 2011 no original data were available.  4  Data basis relating to total staff of all HQs Group-wide. More adequate, since air travelling mainly occurs amongst HQ staff. 5  Restated figures. The respective figures in the CSR Report 2010 were too high due to some calculation errors. our electricity consumption Total consumption extrapolated to group level  (100% FTEs) data basis 1 (% of group FTEs)   2011 2010 2011 2010 Energy source   Electricity (from national grids) 145,080,770 kWh 160,014,370 kWh 27.73% 24.9% 24 CSR CoP 2011  Environmental performance mitigating greenhouse gas emissions As the global leader in  HR services, we are conscious about the environmental im- pact our operations might have and the difference we can  make by acting responsibly. Therefore, in 2010 we started to  collect the data with regards to our CO2 emissions in our 10  largest countries including the global headquarters, stepping  the reporting up to 12 countries in 2011 by adding Japan and  Sweden. With that information, and by benchmarking with  similar industries, we now defined a company-wide reduction  target for our emissions going forward of 12% by 2022.  1.   Electrical energy consumption  2.  Mobility: company car mileages and air miles flown 3.  Office supply: paper and toner consumption 4. Office equipment: computers bought and replaced   In order to assess this data in a consistent and structured  manner, we are using the myclimate platform to collect and  evaluate our carbon footprint. The myclimate emission calcu- lator helps us to assess our emissions at any point in time,  covering close to 86% of our operations in terms of revenue  and it enables participant countries and the Global HQ to:    1.   Identify their Carbon Footprint  2.  Use the data for any stakeholder inquiry 3.  Start reducing our CO2 emission through targeted projects 4.   Communicate about it accordingly to all stake holders   involved. We have set a long-term CO2 reduction target for the Group  by 2022 of 12%.    linking youth unemployment and the environment  Adecco took part in the United Nations Environmental Pro- gramme (UNEP) conference on Green Jobs for Youth. With  one in three unemployed persons today between the ages of  15 and 24 years, governments are called on to shift priorities  toward greater investment in youth. The green economy as  an approach to sustainable development may offer job   opportunities for youth. Support to national and international  efforts aimed at all-inclusive education, vocational training,  skills upgrading, youth entrepreneurship promotion and  greening work place practices are key components of the  policy response. Adecco and in particular DIS AG focus lies in  this area: DIS AG supports the whole value chain of alterna- tive energy sector, specifically wind energy with specialists.  DIS AG is involved nationwide in manufacturing, construction  and service of wind turbines on- and offshore. We train or re- train our employees to become wind energy experts with in- dustry partners and certified training companies. Due to the  proceeding on the job training, they become our professional  wind energy experts: As of spring 2012, DIS AG had 359 spe- cialists involved in wind energy projects.   Read more    country highlights at a glance    green lease plan for Adecco Belgiums business car fleet:   As a result to the reviewed car policy, Belgium succeeded in  decreasing car carbon emission by 187 tonnes CO2. Taking  the occasion of a renewal of the whole car fleet including 140  cars, Adecco has chosen the GreenPlan, offered be the leas- ing company. This included first of all an eco-friendly vehicle  selection but also integrated services to make sure the cars  run in a most ecological friendly manner which includes peri- odic tyre pressure checks, internal consumption monitoring etc.     objective zro papier in France: Adecco Groupe France,  representing 30% of total Group revenues worldwide, suc- ceeds in implementing its zero paper policy. The aim is to  continuously substitute paper documents by electronic files. In  2011, Adecco Group France saved 18.3 tonnes of paper, in- cluding pay slips, work reports, contracts, etc. This results in  saved carbon emission of more than 10 tonnes. The target for  2012 is to have 60% of work reports sent to the clients in elec- tronic format only.     car sharing service for all employees of Adecco group  France Since April 2012, Adecco Group France offers its em- ployees and associates and even its candidates, who actually  do not work (yet) for Adecco, a car sharing service for com- muting. Adecco offers this service in partnership with Co- voiturage.fr, the first carpooling site in France. The initiative  resulted from the fact that around 80% of workers commute  by car, driving alone to work and back.     First detailed csR reporting by Adecco groupe France   Adecco Group France, representing 30% of total Group reve- nues worldwide, publishes in 2012 the first time – and as the  first Adecco subsidiary – a detailed CSR Report. The CSR Re- porting in France will become legally compulsory for compa- nies with over 5,000 people, however only as of 2013. The  Adecco Groupe France is taking the opportunity to already  engage now with the new reporting requirements. Main focus  areas in the reporting include: equality for all – continued  fight against discrimination and promotion of diversity which  is tied to the integration pillar. Safety & prevention issues,  stakeholder dialogue as well as client and supplier relation- ship and environmental performance. All these topics belong  to the Excellence pillar. With regards to the Skills pillar, em- ployability and professional development as well as citizen- ship and the Adecco Groupe France Foundation activities are  emphasised. 25 CSR CoP 2011  Application level c c+ B B+ A A+ Report on: 1.1 2.1–2.10 3.1–3.8; 3.10–3.12 4.1–4.4; 4.14–4.15  Report on all criteria  listed for Level C plus: 1.2 3.9; 3.13 4.5–4.13; 4.16–4.17 Same as requirement   for Level B Not required Management Approach   Disclosures for each   Indicator Category Management Approach  Disclosed for each  Indicator Category Report on a minimum  of 10 Performance  Indicators, including at  least one from each of:  Economic, Social, and  Environmental. Report on a minimum  of 20 Performance  Indicators, at least one  from each of: Economic,  En vironmental, Human  Rights, Labour, Society,  Product Responsibility. Respond on each core  G3 and Sector Supple- ment* Indicator with due  regard to the Materiality  Principle by either:   a) reporting on the  Indicator or b) explain- ing the reason for its  omission. * Sector supplement in final version Content indices uN global compact communication on progress (cop)  The various case studies featured in this report give an insight  into our activities in line with the ten principles of the UN Glob- al Compact. For more details on our progress in relation to the  UNGC principles, please refer to the GRI Content Index on next  pages.  gRI application level The purpose of this report is to give an  overview of our progress since the publication of our full CSR  Report in July 2010. It is therefore limited in nature, concentrat- ing on the material performance indicators for our business.  For most GRI elements, there were no significant changes to  report; in these cases we refer to the coverage in our last  years reporting. It is based on the G3.1 Global Reporting Initia- tive (GRI) Guidelines. Based on our own assessment, this re- port achieves GRI application level B, as illustrated in the GRI  applications level grid below. An in-depth account of our CSR  strategy, initiatives and performance can be found on the rel- evant Adecco corporate webpages and in our next full CSR  Report 2012. For detailed examples of the Adecco groups csR at country  level, please refer to the respective websites (links provided  on www.adecco.com), and in to the social and sustainability  reporting of our subsidiaries.  In particular, we recommend the new csR Report of Adecco  group France which is published in 2012 in line with Act  Grenelle 2, the law of July 12, 2010, which comes now into  effect and regulates public reporting on sustainable develop- ment. GRI Content Index UN Global Compact Communication on Progress index  Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured g3 profile   disclosures g3 management  Approach   disclosures g3 performance   Indicators &   sector  supplement   performance    Indicators 26 CSR CoP 2011  code uNgc  principles description Reference or short answer strategy and analysis 1.1 1–10 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 7–8 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Key impacts: 9–11; risks and  opportunties: AR11 32–33 organisational profile 2.1 Name of the reporting organisation Adecco S.A. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 6; AR11 12–15 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation AR11 19; AR11 40 (>point 1.2) 2.4 Location of organisations headquarters Glattbrugg, Switzerland 2.5 Number and names of countries in which the Adecco Group operates Over 60 countries; AR11 126 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR11 129–130 2.7 Markets served, including geographic breakdown, sectors served and   types of customers AR11 23-26 2.8 Scale of the Adecco Group 4–5; AR11 43–49 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period  AR11 4–5 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 20–21 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Calendar year 2011 3.2 Date of most recent previous report CSR Report 2010, published in  July 2011 3.3 Reporting cycle Annually 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding this report 40 3.5 Process for defining report content 11 (charts); 26 3.6 Boundary of the report CSR10 59 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report CSR10 59 3.8 Comparability from period to period CSR10 59 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations CSR10 59 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatement of information CSR10 60 3.11 Significant changes from previous years in the measurement methods CSR10 60 3.12 GRI content index 27–31 3.13 Current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for this report This report has not been  assured by external auditors,  but the Annual Report:   AR11 106–107. Ec  GRI core indicator  EC  GRI additional indicator    AR11   Reference to page number in Adecco Annual Report 2011  CSR10   Reference to page number in last years CSR Report 2010 www   Link to www.adecco.com Legend    Reported    Partly reported     Not reported, see reference   provided for reason of omission 27 CSR CoP 2011  code uNgc  principles Reported description Reference or short answer governance, commitments, and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including major committees AR11 136–148; CSR Manage- ment: 38–39 4.2 Executive functions of the Chairman of the Board The Chairman has no execu- tive functions 4.3 Board members: number, gender, independence, (non-)executive functions AR11 136–148 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations   to the Board of Directors CSR10 60, 64; AR11 149–151 4.5 Elements of the compensation programme 2011 for the Executive Committee AR11 158–165 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts   of interest are avoided AR11 140 (point 3.5) 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise   of Board members CSR10 60 (cf. AR11 143, point  3.5.3) 4.8 Internally developed charters and principles relevant to sustainable   performance Values and Leadership  Principles: 19, more detailed:  CSR11 27–28. Code of Conduct: CSR11, 30 4.9 Procedures of the Board of Directors for overseeing management of   sustainable performance CSR10 60; AR11 144 (point 3.7) 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board of Directors own performance The Board of Directors dis- cusses and assesses its own  and its members perfor- mance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle   is addressed CSR10 61 4.12 Externally developed, voluntary charters and sets of principles which the organisation endorses 22–23 4.13 Principal memberships in industry and business associations CSR11 61–64 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 10–11 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 10–11 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder consultation CSR11 64 4.17 Key topics and concerns Stakeholders: 11 ISO 26000: 11 AR11 8–11 Economic performance Indicators dmA Ec Disclosure on management approach EC AR11 16–19 Ec1 Economic key data – Investments in philanthropic activities 4–5; AR11 43–49 16 Ec2 7 Financial implications of climate change 65 Ec3 Coverage of the organisations defined benefit plan obligation AR11 87–91 Ec4 Significant financial assistance received from government CSR10 65 Ec5 1 Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage compared to local minimum  wage Reason f. omission: CSR10 65 Ec6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers  CSR10 65 Ec7 6 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from   the local community CSR10 65 Ec8 Development and impact of services provided primarily for public benefit 14–18; CSR10 66–69 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts 13 (chart) 28 CSR CoP 2011  code uNgc  principles Reported description Reference or short answer Environmental performance Indicators (continued) dmA EN Disclosure on management approach EN: 23; CSR10 70 EN1 8–9 Materials used by weight or volume 24 EN2 8–9 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Percentages not known EN3 8–9 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 24 EN4 8–9 Indirect energy consumption by primary source  Not known EN5 8–9 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Not known EN6 8–9 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products   and services CSR10 37: Work opportunities  related to green energy EN7 8–9 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption CSR10 36–37 EN8 8–9 Total water withdrawal by source Not relevant. Cf. CSR10 70 EN9 8–9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Adecco Group runs an  office-based business; its  operations do not therefore  have a significant impact  on any water sources, pro- tected areas, habitats and  biodiversity. EN10 8–9 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and re-used EN11 8–9 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to,   protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected  areas EN12 8–9 Significant impacts on biodiversity in protected areas  EN13 8–9 Habitats protected or restored EN14 8–9 Strategies, actions and plans for managing impacts on biodiversity EN15 8–9 Conservation list species affected by operations EN16 8–9 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 24 EN17 8–9 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 24 EN18 7–9 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions CSR10 35–37 EN19 8–9 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not relevant EN20 8–9 NOx , SOx , and other significant air emissions by type and weight Not relevant EN21 8–9 Total water discharge by quality and destination Not relevant EN22 8–9 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Not relevant EN23 8–9 Total number and volume of significant spills Not relevant EN24 8–9 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed  hazardous Adecco Group does not  transport, import, export  or treat any waste, and  therefore no waste deemed  hazardous under the terms  of the Basel Convention   Annex I, II, III, and VIII. EN25 8–9 Water bodies significantly affected by discharges of water EN26 7–9 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts CSR10 35–37 EN27 8–9 Percentage of products sold that have their packaging materials reclaimed Not relevant EN28 8–9 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental regulations Adecco Group is not aware  of any incidents of or fines  for non-compliance with any  applicable international dec- laration, or national or local  regulations associated with  environmental issues. EN29 8–9 Significant environmental impacts of transportation See EN24 and EN25 EN30 7–9 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Adecco Group currently  does not have any specific  environmental protection  budgets. 29 CSR CoP 2011  code uNgc  principles Reported description Reference or short answer social performance Indicators: labour practices dmA lA Disclosure on management approach LA: overview 	 DMA on Health & safety 13 (chart); AR11 27–29 21 lA1 Total workforce AR11 47 (point 3.4) lA2 6 Total number of new hires and employee turnover  AR11 28 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary  or part-time employees CSR10 72 lA4 1; 3 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements CSR10 72 (more details to  come in next years report) lA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes CSR10 72 LA6 1 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management –   worker health and safety committees CSR10 73 lA7 1 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, work-related fatalities 21 lA8 1 Programmes in place regarding serious diseases Reason f. omission: CSR10 73 LA9 1 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Reason f. omission: CSR10 73 lA10 Average hours of training per year per employee 17 (chart) LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning 16–19; AR11 27–28 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career   development reviews 60–100%, depending on  employee categorisation lA13 1; 6 Composition of governance bodies AR11 29; AR11 136–148 lA14 1; 6 Ratio of basic salary of men to women Reason f. omission: CSR10 73 lA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender CSR10 73 social performance Indicators: Human Rights dmA HR Disclosure on management approach HR: overview 	 DMA on human rights as part of our day-to-day responsibility 13 (chart); 22–23 CSR10 30 HR1 1–6 Significant investment agreements that include human rights CSR10 74 HR2 1–6 Screening of suppliers, contractors and other business partners   on human rights CSR10 74 HR3 1–6 Employee training on policies and procedures, concerning aspects   of  human rights CSR10 30 HR4 1; 2; 6 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken CSR10 74 HR5 1; 2; 3 Operations in which the rights for freedom of association and collective  bargaining are at significant risk – and actions taken CSR10 74 HR6 1; 2; 5 Operations in which child labour is identified as significant risk –   and  measures taken CSR10 74 HR7 1; 2; 4 Operations in which forced labour is identified as significant risk –   and measures taken CSR10 74 HR8 1; 2 Percentage of security personnel trained in human rights Adecco Group is not in need  of specific security personnel  to protect its offices. HR9 1; 2 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people  See HR4 HR10 1; 2 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to   human rights reviews and/or impact assessments HR10 and HR11 are new indi- cators, introduced with G3.1  (launched in March 2011). In  our 2011 Communication on  Progress, we cannot report  on these indicators yet. We  however intend to do so go- ing forward.  HR11 1; 2 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and   resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 30 CSR CoP 2011  code uNgc  principles Reported description Reference or short answer social performance Indicators: society dmA so Disclosure on management approach SO: overview 	 DMA on business ethics 	 DMA on community involvement 	 DMA on compliance 13 (chart) CSR10 30 15–16 AR11 55 so1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement,  impact assessments, and development programmes CSR10 74 so2 10 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption CSR10 74 so3 10 Percentage of employees trained in organisations anti-corruption policies  and procedures 96% (Compliance & Ethics  online training) so4 10 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption To date, we are not aware of  any incidents of corruption.  Cf. CSR10 74 so5 1–10 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and  lobbying 22–23; CSR10 33–34 SO6 10 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and  related institutions CSR10 75 SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust, and monopoly   practices and their outcomes No such legal actions in 2011. so8 Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws and   regulations In 2011, there were no signifi- cant fines or sanctions. so9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local  communities In 2011, we are not aware of  any Adecco Group oper ations  with significant negative im- pacts on local communities. so10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with   negative impacts on local communities Not applicable, see above  SO9 social performance Indicators: product Responsibility dmA pR Disclosure on management approach PR 9 pR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of services are   assessed for improvement CSR10 75 PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning health and safety  impacts of products and services To date, we are not aware of  any significant incidents of  non-compliance with regula- tions in this context. pR3 8 Type of product and service information required and services subject to  such information requirements CSR10 75 PR4 8 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning product and  service information CSR10 75 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including surveys measuring  customer satisfaction CSR10 28 pR6 Programmes for adherence to laws and standards related to marketing  communications The Adecco Group adheres to  laws and applicable stand- ards related to marketing  communications. PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning marketing   communications The Adecco Group is not  aware of any relevant   infringements of the law in  this context. PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and  losses of customer data CSR10 75 pR9 Significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning  products and services In the HR services industry,  PR9 comes up to SO8 (see  above). 31 CSR CoP 2011  Publications by the Adecco Group  and other industry-related studies For more and further knowledge resources, please visit   Adecco Groups Industy Insights on: www.adecco.com  global insights ciett Economic Report 2012   Ciett has published its 2012 Annual Economic Report, based  on figures available for 2010. This report is the fifth of its kind  to reveal that the agency work industry is one of the largest  private employers in the world today, boasting just under 10.4  million workers employed on a daily basis, and global annual  sales revenues in excess of EUR 247 billion.  http://www.eurociett.eu/fileadmin/templates/ciett/docs/ Stats/Ciett_econ_report_2012_final.pdf  Talent mobility good practices – collaboration at the core  of driving Economic growth (2012)  This WEF report was prepared in collaboration with Mercer,   is based on 55 case studies from around the world. It shows  concrete actions that organisations – including companies,  governments, academic institutions, and non-profit entities  – have implemented to address talent challenges. Among the  case studies, the featured solutions to these problems are  varied, ranging from shaping academic curricula to better  meet an industrys talent needs to training underskilled work- ers for employment. The report concludes with recommenda- tions on how individual stakeholders can advance successful  collaborative talent mobility practices. http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_PS_TalentMobility_Re- port_2012.pdf  unlocking Britains potential (2012)  Driven by ongoing economic uncertainty, inspired by the  promise of a diverse and inclusive Olympic and Paralympic  Games, and spurred on by the unrelenting rise of economic  superpowers such as China and Russia, Britain felt it was im- perative to develop a blueprint for future business success  and competitiveness. Education is failing to equip the future  workforce effectively. Many believe that the role of education  should be to focus more on employability skills in young   people, and less on qualifications. As a nation, we place in- sufficient value on the basic tools of employability, such as  behaviour, attitude and communication; not just in the class- room and the workplace, but in the home too. http://www.unlockingbritainspotential.co.uk/download/  Adapting to change, Better labour markets and decent  Work (2011)  This Boston Consulting Group/Ciett study finds that the private  employment sector stands for a number of characteristics that  help labour markets to remain and become more efficient,  and making it a valuable employment partner for govern- ments, companies and workers in the decades to come. http://www.ciett.org/fileadmin/templates/ciett/docs/Stats/ Adapting_to_Change/CIETT_Adapting_to_Change.pdf  Its time to manage age (2011)  This Adecco Group White Paper coincide with the EU Year 2012  of Active Ageing and Solidarity Between Generations and  provides an overview of labour market practices affecting old- er workers in Europe. It also gives evidence on how to support  active ageing policies and promote age diversity within com- panies. http://www.adecco.com/en-US/Industry-Insights/Documents/ mature_workers_2011.pdf  Two worlds collide? Bringing copenhagen to Bologna (2011)  This white paper, initiated by the Adecco Group, looks at what  is done to increase the proportion of highly educated people  in the workforce. Policymakers in the European Union initi- ated the Bologna Process, which aims to increase the number  of university graduates and to harmonise higher education  certificates. At the same time, comparable policy measures for  vocational education have had hardly any impact. Vocational  education in a dual system, which is widespread in Germany,  Switzerland and Austria, is often presented and discussed as  one way to successfully meet the growing needs of the infor- mation society.  http://www.adecco.com/en-US/Industry-Insights/Pages/Is- sues.aspx#Generation-Z  disability: dispelling the myths – How people With disabili- ties can meet Employer Needs (2012)  Disability: Dispelling the Myths is a resource for businesses.   It provides information on successful strategies used by em- ployers to meet their labour force needs and includes practical  examples and commonsense approaches for hiring and re- taining people with disabilities. Chambers of commerce can  use this publication to educate and advise local businesses  and their partners on workforce development strategies. http://www.ncsu.edu/dso/general/disability_myths.pdf  Further reading  32 CSR CoP 2011  Ilo World report on disability (2011)  The first ever World report on disability, produced jointly by  WHO and the World Bank, suggests that more than a billion  people in the world today experience disability. People with  disabilities have generally poorer health, lower education  achievements, fewer economic opportunities and higher rates  of poverty than people without disabilities. This is largely due  to the lack of services available to them and the many obsta- cles they face in their everyday lives. The report provides the  best available evidence about what works to overcome barri- ers to health care, rehabilitation, education, employment, and  support services, and to create the environments which will  enable people with disabilities to flourish.  http://www.who.int/disabilities/world_report/2011/en/index.html  Accessibility guide for companies (2010)  Just a little over a decade ago, it would have been surprising  to find companies that were interested in adapting their build- ings, environments, and positions for people with physical,  sensory, or psychological disabilities. Things are no longer  that way. This is not only due to the current laws and regula- tions that preserve and promote the incorporation of disabled  workers in the workforce, but mostly due to the cultural  change where principles of plurality and equality have be- come stronger in daily life and at the workplace.  http://www.csr360gpn.org/uploads/files/resources/Acces- sibility_Guide_for_Companies.pdf Future Jobs – How does work look like in Europe 2020  (2011, german)  This study by DIS AG and the German Zukunftsinstitut looks  at work as a central theme. Work is not only about earning  money and is far more than just an economic transaction.  Work provides a status, an identity and gives a sense of be- longing. So how will work develop over the coming years?  What are the trends across industries and regions?  http://www.dis-ag.com/dis/Presse/Documents/1104_DIS_  Studie_FutureJobs.pdf  social media @ Human Resource management – A study  about social networks (2011, german)  A study initiated by DIS AG and conducted by the University of  Applied Sciences in Dresden and the Leipzig University of Ap- plied Sciences found out that 18 million people in Germany  have a profile on Facebook and around 3.8 million Germans  are on XING. Social media are belonging to everyday life for  many people in the private and professional domain. This has  been acknowledged by many companies in recent times.  More and more, social media is becoming a tool for them to  access talent. But what do employers need to think and be  aware of when using social media?  http://www.dis-ag.com/dis/Presse/Documents/DIS_AG_  Social_Media_Studie_2011.pdf local insights Adecco switzerland HR-Barometer 2011  The Swiss Human-Relations-Barometer 2011 is the sixth edition  of a yearly study which looks at work relations, work condi- tions as well as work ethics and behaviour of employees in  Switzerland. The developments over the past six years are  being exemplified and discussed.  ISBN: 978-3-03823-648-9  Adecco swiss Job market Index  The Adecco Swiss Job Market Index ASJMI is the only com- bined job market index in Switzerland, providing information  about the entire Swiss job market in all branches and across  all regions. It is made up of the three sub-indices Company  Websites, Job Portals and Media, which display job offers  from all the important advertising channels.  http://www.adecco.ch/en-US/about-adecco/sponsoring-part- nerships/university-of-zurich/Pages/PublicationsASJMI.aspx  gua diferentes (2012 spanish)  OHL (Obrascon-Huarte-Lain) and Fundacin Adecco created  Diferentes, an illustrated guide for children between the age  of four and eight on diversity and disabled people. The guide  was illustrated by the renowned artist Miguel Gallardo and  written by Angels Ponce, a family therapist and specialist on  disability. The guide aims to remove social barriers and nor- malise disability at an early stage. http://www.fundacionadecco.es/SalaPrensa/PublicacionesEs- tudioCasos.aspx?Est_Id=163  study on corporate social Responsibility in spain (2010,  spanish)  The study, conducted by El Club de Excelencia de Sostenibili- dad and Adecco Fundaccin, elaborates on why companies  should engage in community projects. It makes it clear that  such an engagement is much more than a one-way benefit  but it actually contributes greatly to achieve corporate objec- tives leading to a more stustainable way of doing business. http://www.clubsostenibilidad.org/main.asp?id_pagina=26  2012 us Job market perspectives  This report examines both the current and future state of the  labour market while also exploring how trends in U.S. eco- nomic development, as well as the upcoming presidential  election, will impact Americas workforce. Topics discussed in  the report include: Significant workforce trends of 2011 and  2012 including the unemployment rate, sector growth and the  global economic impact on the US workforce; the role of the  labor market on the 2012 presidential election; and insight into  anticipated job trends for 2012 by geography and industry. http://www.adeccousa.com/Documents/flipbook/2012-job- market-perspectives/index.html 33 CSR CoP 2011  2011 us Job market perspectives  The phrase job growth was happily welcomed back into the  American vernacular in 2010. Following one of the most chal- lenging time periods for the US economy and job market.  What is now referred to as the Great Recession this past year  introduced a level of stability which helped to nudge the eco- nomic pendulum in a new direction.  http://www.adeccousa.com/Documents/flipbook/2011-job- market-perspectives/index.html Adecco group Australia Temporary labour Report (2012)  The second edition of the Adecco Group Temporary Labour  Report. On behalf of the Adecco Group, economist Dr Chris  Caton presented on The Global and Australian Economy and  the role of Temporary Employment and commented on how  the Australian economy will fare in 2012 and beyond.  http://www.adecco.com.au/en-AU/our-services/temp-labour- report/Documents/temporary%20labour%20report%202012.pdf  Adecco group Australia Temporary labour Report (2011)  The worlds leading recruiter presents Australias first tempor- ary labour market report, revealing findings from the Adecco  Group Temporary Labour Employer Survey and Temporary  Labour Employee Survey. The report is the first of its kind in  Australia to focus on this important aspect of the nations  labour market. A copy of the report can be ordered by sending  an e-mail to: marketing@adecco.com.au 34 CSR CoP 2011  Adecco group Foundation The Adecco Group foundations  are not-for-profit organisations that directly or indirectly help  disadvantaged groups enter the labour market. The founda- tions can concentrate on the needs of target groups, and  build an important basis for the Adecco Groups social com- mitments. Affinity group A small group of individuals responsible for a  given activity, issue, role or skill. Ageing workforce The next few decades will see substantial  demographic changes due to the ageing of the workforce.  This development will reshape all aspects of our lives, includ- ing businesses, workplaces, health and education systems,  requiring active intervention by all concerned. Baby boomers Individuals born between 1946 and 1964. Branch Where we offer our products and services to candi- dates and clients. candidate Any person interested in becoming an associate  or having a permanent placement. carbon disclosure project (cdp) Independent not-for-profit  organisation holding the largest database of primary corpor-  ate climate change information in the world. carbon footprint The sum of all emissions of CO2 (carbon  dioxide), which are induced by activities in a given time frame. career management Addresses the needs of both employers  and employees throughout their working lives. change management The development of a planned ap- proach to changing a method of management or business  practice in an organisation. Typically, the objective is to maximise the collective efforts of everybody involved in the  change. cIETT The International Confederation of Private Employment  Agencies. CIETT is the authoritative voice representing the  common interests of the agency work industry and consists of  40 national federations from EU and EFTA and 6 of the largest  staffing companies worldwide. Its main objective is to help its  members, which include Adecco Group, Olympia Flexgroup,  Kelly Services, Manpower, Randstad, and USG People.  client A buyer of Adecco Groups HR services. co2 equivalent (co2-e) An accounting value for greenhouse  gas (GHG) emissions: These are generally expressed as a  weight of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2-e). This is because  other GHGs may have a different global warming potential  from carbon dioxide and it is usual to combine the effect of all  greenhouse gases into one number for CO2-e. code of conduct A document referring to companies policy  statements that define ethical standards for and proper prac- tices for individuals and the organisation. competence-based training Training that focuses exclusively  on teaching the skills, facts and attitudes associated with a  specific job. cop Business participants in the UN Global Compact make a  commitment to comply with the Global Compacts ten princi- ples, including theim into their business strategy and their  day-to-day operations. At the same time, companies are re- quired to issue an annual Communication on Progress (CoP),  a public disclosure to stakeholders on progress made in im- plementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, and  in supporting broad UN development goals. corporate culture The inherent personality of a company or  business. This includes a companys values, vision, principles,  traditions, operating methods and work environment. The  company places equal value on its associates, customers, shareholders, suppliers and communities, because all these  elements are important to the company and its business. corporate governance Corporate governance encompasses  the full range of principles directed towards shareholders  interest seeking a good balance between direction and con- trol and transparency at the top company level while main- taining decision-making capacity and efficiency (source: Swiss  Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance). corporate (social) Responsibility (cR or csR) The definition  CR/CSR is still evolving. It addresses the concept that, beyond  merely conducting its business and adhering to legal guide- lines, an organisation has obligations such as looking after  the welfare of its employees, the community, society at large  and the environment. CR encompasses corporate governance,  economic, social and environmental responsibilities. CR is  backed by UN initiatives such as the Global Compact and is  the subject of several standardisation initiatives such as the  GRI, the AA1000 series and the ISO 26000 guide. dAXglobal sarasin sustainability switzerland The DAXglo- bal Sarasin Sustainability Switzerland Index tracks Swiss com- panies with sustainable performance. The Swiss index is  based on the 50 largest companies in terms of market cap- italisation and on the sustainability criteria defined by the   Sarasin Sustainability Matrix, which combines an industry rat- ing and a company rating, and takes into consideration direct  and indirect ecological and social effects. www.sarasin.ch decentralisation Significant decision-making delegated  throughout the organisation, down to regional, national and  local management levels. diversity A range of visible and invisible differences that exist  between people. By managing diversity, we can take advan- tage of these differences and create a productive environment  in which everybody feels valued, where talents are fully util- ised, and in which organisational goals are met. dow Jones sustainability Index dJsI Launched in 1999, the  Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes are the first global indexes  tracking the financial performance of the leading sustain- ability-driven companies worldwide. EIRIs A leading global independent, not-for-profit organisa- tion which conducts independent research into the environ- mental, social, governance and ethical performance of com- panies. EsI Ethibel Sustainability Indices provide a comprehensive  perspective on the financial performance of the worlds lead- Glossary 35 CSR CoP 2011  ing companies in terms of sustainability, for institutional inves- tors, asset managers, banks, and retail investors. Ethibel Sus- tainability Indices list the pioneering companies, as well as  those whose performance is rated within the average for the  sector and which meet certain financial criteria. The ESI are  owned by Vigeo. www.ethibel.org Ethical Index Euro The Ethical Index Euro is part of E. Capital  Partners ECPI Index Family. The development of the underlying  criteria for the indices is based on client consensus, sustain- ability and good business behaviour, the UN Declaration of  Human Rights, the ILO Protocol, as well as the work of aca- demic institutions and NGOs involved in human rights and  environmental questions. www.e-cpartners.com Eurociett The European Confederation of Private Employment  Agencies. See under Ciett. www.euro-ciett.org  Eurofound The European Foundation for the Improvement of  Living and Working Conditions is a European Union body. Spe- cifically, it was set up to contribute to the planning and design  of better living and working conditions in Europe. Eurofounds  core business is both research and communicating the results  of that research. www.eurofound.europa.eu  Flexicurity refers to the combination of labour market flexibil- ity in a dynamic economy with security for workers. Flexicurity  is a three-sided mix of flexibility in the labour market, com- bined with social security and an active labour market policy  with rights and obligations for the unemployed. FTsE4good The FTSE4Good Index Series is a series of bench- mark and tradable indices for socially responsible investors.  The indices are used as a basis for regional and global index  tracker funds – a range of structured products – and as a  stock selection platform for actively managed funds. The index  inclusion criteria have been designed to identify companies  that meet globally recognised and accepted, socially respon- sible criteria as they evolve. www.ftse.com/ftse4good generation X Individuals born between 1965 and 1977.   Adecco describes generation Xers as being influenced by  technology, television, day care and divorce. They represent  an age of accelerated schedules, multitasking and the infor- mation revolution.  generation y Individuals born between 1978 and 1989.   Adecco describes generation Yers as pragmatic and hard- working, as well as wanting independence and job satisfac- tion. They are a generation of volunteers who seek such op- portunities outside the workplace. gHg Greenhouse gases are those gases which are sup- posed to trap the heat in the atmosphere and thus to cause a  global warming. The principal greenhouse gases that enter  the atmosphere because of human activities are: carbon   dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (NO2) and various  fluorinated gases.  global compact Launched at the UN headquarters, New  York, in July 2000, the Global Compact is a voluntary corpor- ate citizenship initiative with a vision of a more sustainable  and inclusive global economy. It has two objectives: to encour- age the adoption of its ten principles in business activities  around the world, and to help achieve the UNs human and  labour rights goals. www.unglobalcompact.org gRI Global Reporting Initiative. An independent institution  dedicated to developing and disseminating globally applic- able Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The GRI seeks to   elevate sustainability reporting to the same level of rigour,  comparability, credibility and verifiability expected of financial  reporting, while serving the information needs of a broad  range of stakeholders from civil society, government labour  and the private business community. There are strong links  between the GRI and initiatives such as the United Nations  Global Compact, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enter- prises and many others. www.globalreporting.org Human resource business process outsourcing (HR Bpo)   Total or partial outsourcing of HR duties (e.g. payroll, recruit- ing, training, benefits, employee orientation, staffing). Ilo The International Labour Organization (ILO) is the tripartite  UN agency that brings together governments, employers and  workers of its member states in common action to promote  decent work throughout the world. www.ilo.org Intergenerational programme Programmes that bring to- gether participants of different ages.  Iso 26000 A Guidance on social responsibility issued by the  International Organisation for Standardisation. It aims to be   a first step in helping all types of organisation in both the pub- lic and private sectors to consider implementing ISO 26000 as  a way to achieve the benefits of operating in a socially  respon sible manner. The guidance standard was published in  November 2010 as ISO 26000 and is voluntary in character. It  does not include requirements and thus is not a certification  standard. Key performance indicator (KpI) A parameter used to deter- mine whether the desired input or outcome has been achieved. leadership development The development of leaders within  an organisation. Companies may implement programmes  that instruct and guide employees on how to become leaders  in both their professional lives and their communities. learning styles Different approaches to learning. Recognised  styles include visual, auditory, kinaesthetic and intrapersonal. lifelong learning In an era of rapidly evolving knowledge and  ever-increasing globalisation, patterns of working, learning,  and living need to change with the times. Lifelong learning is  a continuous process of formal and informal learning to keep  employees up to date. mentorship Relationship between a (usually) senior and   a junior employee. The senior employee instructs and guides  the junior employee on a companys work practices, skills,   as well as career choices and decisions. multigenerational workplace Refers to todays workforce,  which for the first time in history includes at least four gener- ations: the silent generation, baby boomers, generation X   36 CSR CoP 2011  secondment The assignment of an Adecco employee (not an  associate) to a client, with the employee remaining on   Adeccos payroll, but fully integrated into the clients organisa- tion. secondary suppliers Other recruitment agencies, which  Adecco Group, in the role as first human resources supplier to  a specific client, may use for staffing procurement. skill shortage Is an economic condition in which there are  insufficient qualified candidates/employees to fill the market- place demands for employment at any price. sRI Stands for socially responsible investment, an investment  strategy that takes into account a companys ethical, social  and environmental performance as well as its financial perfor- mance. stakeholder Individuals in, or representatives of, a group who  have for various reasons an interest in a company such as the  Adecco Group. This includes people who are directly or indir- ectly affected by the Company and its actions. stretch assignment A career development tool which puts an  employee in a new function, which overstrains his or her cap- abilities and thus challenges him or her to pick up new skills. sustainability The principle that we must meet the needs of  the present without compromising the ability of future gener- ations to meet their own needs. Sustainability, corporate re- sponsibility and CSR are often synonymous. Talent management The management of an organisations  employees or workers. Talent management requires that a  company recognises the individual strengths and weaknesses of its employees or workforce, as well as strive to revise and  improve the talents and skills of its workforce. Temporary placement The placement of human resources for  non-permanent employment needs. Placements may be  defin ite or indefinite. Thought leadership The process of providing specific, prede- termined information on a certain subject. Individuals or en- tities can be thought leaders and can drive or lead discus- sions on a certain topic. Training The development of a companys human capital. uNI global union The global union for skills and services. Its  the biggest grouping of individual trade unions in the world  with more than 900 affiliated unions in 150 countries and 20  million affiliated members. www.uniglobalunion.org  Work-life balance A situation where an employees work and  personal life are balanced. Employees may be given options  such as telecommuting, flexible work schedules, maternal or  paternal leave to accommodate their personal lives with their  careers. 360 feedback A performance review method that allows an  employee to get feedback from supervisors, peers, staff mem- bers, co-workers and sometimes customers.  and generation Y. According to Adecco Group, the multigen- erational workplace provides a strong impetus for businesses  to take a closer look at the generational distribution of their  workforce and understand each groups needs, enabling them  to run a more efficient and effective workplace. oEcd The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and De- velopment (OECD) is to promote policies that will improve the  economic and social well-being of people around the world. outplacement The process of placing employees in other  positions or training courses following loss of a job. outsourcing The practice of using external workers and/or  machinery for certain business tasks. peer review An assessment conducted by a person of the  same level. permanent placement The placement of a candidate (poten- tially an associate) for an indeterminate period. project staffing/consulting The assignment of an employee  or a team from the Adecco staff (potentially complemented by associate[s]) to the client for the execution of a project, with  the resources remaining on Adeccos payroll and integrated  into Adeccos reporting structure. public-private partnership (ppp) All forms of cooperation  between public authorities and the private sector. PPP is be- coming an increasingly important factor in the labour market  owing to the need for greater flexibility on the part of com- panies, safeguarding of social security for employees and the  growing importance of career changes. Recruitment process outsourcing (Rpo) Is the transfer of op- erational responsibility for one or more recruiting functions for  permanent labour (including recruitment administration) from  the client to a services provider. Ruggy guidelines The United Nations Human Rights Council  endorsed a new set of Guiding Principles for Business and  Human Rights designed to provide for the first time a global  standard preventing and addressing the risk of adverse im- pacts on human rights linked to business activity. The Guiding  Principles are the product of six years of research led by Pro- fessor Ruggie from Harvard University, outlining how outline  States and businesses should implement the UN Protect,   Respect and Remedy Framework. sAm Investment boutique focused exclusively on Sustainabil- ity Investing since 1995. The firms offering comprises asset  management, indexes and private equity. scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas (gHg) emissions The con- cept of Scopes defines the boundaries between three differ- ent types of indirect and direct emissions: Scope 1 are direct  emissions, Scope 2 are emissions associated with the genera- tion of electricity, heating/cooling, or steam purchased for  own consumption, and Scope 3 are indirect emissions other  than those covered in Scope 2. 37 CSR CoP 2011  CSR Governance within the Adecco Group Board of directors Rolf Drig Chairman of the Board of Directors Andreas Jacobs  Vice-Chairman Responsibilities at committee  Andreas Jacobs, Chairman  Audit Committee  Alexander Gut  David Prince Dominique-Jean Chertier Andreas Jacobs, Chairman Nomination & Compensation Committee  Thomas ONeill Wanda Rapaczynski Wanda Rapaczynski, Chairwoman Corporate Governance Committee Alexander Gut Didier Lamouche Thomas ONeill corporate functions Patrick De Maeseneire Chief Executive Officer Stephan Howeg Head Group Communications & CSR Christian Vasino Chief HR Officer Patrick Kleffel General Counsel Hans Brtsch Head Compliance Reporting Pierlaurent Barbieri Head Group Internal Audit Adecco group global diversity   Business council Ken Graham Canada Bruce Roch France Claudio Sold Italy Lois Cooper North America William T. Rolack Sr. David J. Maldonado Esq. Francisco Mesonero Fernndez de Crdoba Spain Steve Girdler United Kingdom & Ireland   Salvador de Antuano Mexico Adecco csR country contacts Australia & New Zealand Rick Khinda Director Marketing & Communications and CSR Belgium Geert Van Droogenbroeck Marketing Manager & CSR denmark Vibeke Jacobsen HR Manager & CSR Eastern Europe Evangelia Isari Marketing Manager and CSR Finland Marko Pajula  Sales & Marketing Director and CSR 38 CSR CoP 2011  France Bruce Roch CSR Director, Adecco Group France Jean-Franois Connan Director Insertion, Adecco Group France Jerme Grvais General Manager, Adecco Group Fondation Iberia & lATAm Francisco Mesonero Fernndez de Crdoba General Manager Fundacin Adecco and CSR Adecco Iberia & LATAM David Morales Communications Manager Fundacin Adecco and CSR Adecco Iberia & LATAM India Rashi Chaturvedi Marketing & Communications Italy Claudio Sold General Secretary Adecco Fondazione & Public Affairs Adecco Italy Japan Hirotaka Yamanami Corporate Planning and CSR Japan & Asia Netherlands Rinus Wittenberg  Marketing Manager and CSR Norway Reidun Brekke Regional Director & CSR North America Lois Cooper Vice President CSR & Inclusion Tyra Tutor Corporate Development and CSR Pauline Gebon Supplier Diversity Rachelle Chapman Career Connections Programme switzerland Jos M. San Jos  Marketing Director and CSR sweden Fred Lafquist Sponsoring and CSR Charlotte Norden  Director Marketing and CSR uK & Ireland Brian Jeal Procurement Manager 39 CSR CoP 2011  Registered office Adecco Group S.A. (Holding) CH-1275 Chserex contact details Adecco Group management & consulting S.A. Sgereistrasse 10 P.O. Box CH-8152 Glattbrugg T +41 44 878 88 88 F +41 44 829 88 88 Group Communications T +41 44 878 87 87 F +41 44 829 88 39 sustainability@adecco.com Investor Relations T +41 44 878 89 89 F +41 44 829 89 24 investor.relations@adecco.com http://investor.adecco.com Adecco Group on the Internet www.adecco.com Imprint Publisher: Adecco management & consulting S.A., Glattbrugg July 2012 Imprint 40 CSR CoP 2011