Annual Report 2011  Main Indicators gri 2.8 | ec1 MAIN INDICATORS  gri 2,8 | EC1 R$ Million 2011 Variation  2011 x 2010 2010 2009 Net Revenues 9,858.1 5% 9,380.6 10,871.3 Gross Margin 22.5% 17% 19.2% 19.4% Operating Income 521.8 -24% 685.6 766.7 Operating Margin 5.3% -27% 7.3% 7.1% Adjusted EBITDA1 923.0 -14% 1,069.2 1,218.8 Adjusted EBITDA Margin 9.4% -18% 11.4% 11.2% Net Income 156.3 -73% 573.6 912.1 Net Margin 1.6% -74% 6.1% 8.4% Investments2 636.3 11% 573.4 824.5 Net Indebtedness 3,110.1 30% 2,390.6 3,584.0 ROE 2.7% -75% 11.0% 18.2% ROCE (US$) 11.9% -26% 16.1% 15.8% Dividends Distributed 180.9 -10% 201.0 228.8 Total Assets 16,616.5 19% 13,981.0 15,478.5 Net Assets 5,848.4 12% 5,217.7 5,019.8 Firm Order Backlog (US$ bi) 15.4 -1% 15.6 16.6 Number of Employees 17,265 1% 17,149 16,853 EBIT per Employee (R$ mi) 30.2 -25% 40.0 45.5 The numbers for 2009 to 2011 are in line with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). 1Net earnings, plus net financial income (expenses), taxes, depreciation and amortization, non-operating income (expenses), minority shares, and pick-up equity.  2Values include investments in Property, Plant & Equipment (PP&E).  REvENuES pER SEgMENT   2011 2010 2009 Commercial Aviation 64% 61% 69% Executive Aviation 19% 23% 17% Defense and Security 15% 15% 12% Others 2% 1% 2% REvENuES by REgION   2011 2010 2009 North America 20% 13% 22% Europe 25% 33% 33% South and Central America 11% 15% 7% Brazil 17% 13% 11% Asia Pacific 9% 6% 8% China 11% 9% 9% Africa and Middle East 7% 11% 10% AIRCRAfT DElIvERIES pER SEgMENT 2011 2010 2009 Commercial Jets 105 101 125 Large Executive Jets* 16 19 21 Light Executive Jets** 83 126 98 * Legacy and Lineage ** Phenom Jets delivered to the Defense and Security market were accounted for in the segment, according to the model delivered.  are what make us fly OuR pEOplE   I joined Embraer 14 years ago to work in the production area. Since  then, I went through several areas of Embraer, until I came to the  department of Administration of Sales Contracts for Executive  Aviation. Here, I have an opportunity to interact with several  departments and get an overview of the Company, besides contact  with customers. To them, I am Embraer. I enjoy what I do and the  return I received from Projects Manager of 4AH, LLC (U.S.), Mike  Simpson, shows that customers notice that: I would like to express  my appreciation for the excellent work done by Renata Ramos. She  impeccably coordinated the entire delivery process for the delivery of  our Phenom 300 aircraft. I was impressed by the way she handled the  needs of my team. I left Brazil with an excellent airplane and confident  that, with people like Renata representing Embraer, we will have a long  commercial relationship. RENATA fIORI RAMOS, ADMINISTRATOR Of  SAlES CONTRACTS fOR ExECuTIvE AvIATION, EMbRAER. Curiosity about Brazil is what called my attention to Embraer  in 2000, when the Chinese office was opened with only three  employees. I knew that Brazil was rich in natural resources, but I  could never imagine that it had one of the largest companies in  aeronautics technology in the world. Over time, I learned what  contributes to Embraers success: its people. We work as a family  that is united and dedicated to achieving our common objectives.  This atmosphere generates a lot of satisfaction. The companys  constant support gives employees a lot of freedom to expose  their ideas and put them into practice. This was how Embraer  conquered over 70% of Chinas regional aviation market. I am proud  to be part of this story.  MAggIE WANg, RESpONSIblE fOR ThE hR,  ADMINISTRATION, fINANCES AND IT AREAS AT EMbRAER ChINA. Pratt & Whitney Canada and Embraer have a long, solid history built  on our shared commitment to advance the aviation industry and  support our customers. We are proud to power Embraer aircraft  from the Bandeirante turboprop, which entered service in the  1970s, to todays Phenom 100 and 300 jets. Like Pratt & Whitney  Canadas team, Embraer employees are passionate about aviation  and dedicated to delivering advanced aircraft and technologies  to the market. Our relationship has been built on a long-standing  tradition of trust and transparency, always in the spirit of continuous  improvement.  MARIA DEllA pOSTA, SENIOR vICE pRESIDENT, SAlES &  MARkETINg, pRATT & WhITNEy CANADA.  About this  Report Providing a clear, transparent and broad accounting  of the economic, social and environmental  performance of Embraer to all of its stakeholders  is the main objective of this publication, which has  been prepared in line with the guidelines of the  Global Reporting Initiative.  or the fourth consecutive year, Embraer S.A. has adopted the international guideli- nes of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), version G3, for presenting its economic,  social and environmental performance, with application level B.   gri 2.1 | 3.2 The information covers the period from January 1 to December 31, 2011, except when subse- quent events are mentioned. Full economic-financial results are presented for operations in  Brazil and the other countries in which Embraer has units. The socioenvironmental results re- ported here refer to the units installed in Brazil, except when coverage of other subsidiaries is  mentioned.  gri 3.1 | 3.3 | 3.6 | 3.7 | 3.8 The objective of this Report is to give a clear, transparent and broad accounting to all of  the Companys stakeholders (employees, customers, community, financial institutions, sup- pliers, government, NGOs, shareholders and investors, representative associations and enti- ties, and the media).  gri 3.5 The criteria for selecting information gave priority to the relevance of the subjects to the Com- pany, and they also consider its commitment to the requirements of the Corporate Sustainabi- lity Index (ndice de Sustentabilidade Empresarial – ISE) of the BM&FBOvESPA and of the Dow  Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), and to the Ten Principles of the United Nations (UN) Global  Compact.   gri 3.5 The calculations of the financial data followed the criteria established by the International  Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and they were audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers  (PwC). In 2011, the Companys relationship with this auditing firm was restricted to this  verification. The areas responsible for the socioenvironmental data use internal systems and  tools to gather and consolidate the indicators needed for preparing the report.   gri 3.9 | 3.10 Significant changes that affect comparability will be indicated throughout the Report, which  also lists the GRI indicators at the end of paragraphs, charts or tables in which they are descri- bed.  gri 3.10 | 3.11 Enjoy your reading! F fOR MORE INfORMATION, gO TO:  http://ri.embraer.com.br or call + 55 (12) 3927-4404  gri 3.4 SuggESTED DOCuMENTS:  Administrative Report, Financial Statements,  Reference Form, and 20-F Report  Although faced by a challenging scenario, Embraer achieved important  accomplishments in all business areas. Increased sales to commercial  aviation, substantial internationalization of executive aviation, and  acquisitions of participation in defense and security. Also worthy of note  was the effectiveness of the Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program,  which has guided the Companys pursuit of excellence. n a year that was replete with challenges, Embraer continued to grow and improve,  firmly based on its corporate values – Customers, People, Boldness and Innovation,  Excellence, Global Presence, and Sustainability. Faced with an uncertain international economic scenario, Embraer delivered 216 aircraft: 105  commercial jets, 99 executive jets, and 12 military airplanes. The commercial aviation business  represented 64% of net revenues of US$5.8 billion, executive aviation was 19%, and the defense  and security segment was 15%, complemented by 2% from other business. At the end of the  fiscal year, the firm order backlog totaled US$15.4 billion. In commercial aviation, the sale of 124 E-Jets presented a 30% increase over 2010, and the  Company surpassed the milestone of 1,000 firm orders and 800 aircraft delivered of the   EMBRAER 170/175/190/195 models. In executive aviation, the fleet of Phenom airplanes reached 300 in operation, including the  first to be produced in the United States, which established a historic mile post for Embraer.  The Legacy 650 obtained FAA (U.S.) and CAAC (China) certification, which is an important  step toward producing the model in China, expected to begin in 2013. The first prototype of the   Legacy 500 was launched in December, and the first flight is expected for the third quarter of 2012. I Message from   The President & CEO  gri 1.1 | 1.2 Frederico Fleury Curado  President & CEO  In 2011, the Embraer Defense and Security corporate unit was created,  expanding its scope of involvement via stock acquisitions and the cre- ation of joint venture companies. The KC-390 program moved ahead  on schedule and within budget, while completing the selection and hi- ring of all of the main partners and suppliers and  starting the detailed  project phase.  gri 2.9 Before the provisioning to handle the financial guarantees associated  with aircraft financed in the past, especially for American Airlines,  Embraer surpassed the economic-financial results of the previous  year, as well as its own forecasts made to the market, by recording  operating results of US$504 million and a margin of 8.7%. After  these contingencies, the Company had operating results of US$318  million, equivalent to a margin of 5.5%. This is evidence of the effectiveness of the Embraer Entrepreneurial  Excellence Program (P3E), which has been the moving force for the  transformation and the pursuit of excellence and continuous impro- vement that the Company has been following for several years. The Company has been providing full and unrestricted support to the  independent investigation being conducted at the request of the Se- curity and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the U.S. Department of  Justice (DoJ). As for initiatives focusing on the environment, a highlight is coopera- tion with GE in the flight test campaign of an EMBRAER 170 powered  by the latest biokerosene, for the purpose of making possible the fu- ture ample use of fuels from renewable sources in the air transpor- tation industry. In the social area, Embraers Juarez Wanderley High School once  again gained a place of distinction when its students ranked high on  the National High School Exam (Exame Nacional do Ensino Mdio –  ENEM) and in Brazils college entrance exams. A second high school  will be established in the city of Botucatu, So Paulo, in 2012, and will  open in 2013. At Embraer, the appreciation of its people is a priority. The 81% score  achieved on the employee satisfaction poll is witness to its effective- ness. And the Company was awarded by three independent organi- zations, as one of the best companies to work for in Brazil and, for the  first time, it was named one of the best companies to work for in the  U.S. State of Florida. Consistent with these results, the Company became the leader of  the Aerospace and Defense segment of the Dow Jones Sustaina- bility Index (DJSI), and, for the seventh consecutive year, the Com- pany was listed with the Corporate Sustainability Index (ndice de  Sustentabilidade Empresarial – ISE) of the So Paulo Stock Exchange  (BM&FBOvESPA). Throughout its 42-year history, Embraer has been establishing itself  as a force in the worldwide aeronautics market, while seeking to be  an increasingly globalized, diversified and efficient organization, with  customer satisfaction being the primary source for generating wealth  for shareholders, collaborators, and society, in general.  In 2012, Embraer will continue to grow, invest and pursue excellence,  centered on its corporate values, and consolidating the bases for its  perpetuity.  with different points of view, parameters, and cultures, thus  ensuring even greater quality and diversity for our business.  We are building this success story with a calling for boldness  and innovation, breaking across frontiers and opening new  perspectives every day. And we share the fruit of this history  with all those who have helped us achieve it: employees,  customers, shareholders, suppliers, society, and governments.  We believe in a promising future, which will be increasingly  present, through the competence and talent of our people and  the trust that is placed in us day after day.  WE ARE EMbRAER! WE bElIEvE IN A bETTER WAy TO fly       We develop innovative aircraft and technologies so that people  can choose the best way to fly. Our people are the prime movers  for us to achieve our triumphs. With competent and engaged  professionals, we are more prepared to serve our customers  with our characteristic excellence. We unceasingly pursue  the improvement of our products and services, in order to fly  increasingly farther. We are a Brazilian multinational company,  which is present on five continents with our operations and  products. This global presence brings us in closer contact   16  pROfIlE   17 Global Presence   21 Awards and Recognition 24  CORpORATE gOvERNANCE   25 Entrepreneurial Philosophy   27 Holding Company    29 Board of Directors   30 Fiscal Board   30 Executive Board   33 Policies   35 Risk Management   39 Code of Ethics and Conduct    40  Participation and Support for   volunteer Initiatives and Associations  44  OpERATIONAl pERfORMANCE   45 Commercial Aviation   49 Executive Aviation   52  Defense and Security   58  Agricultural Aviation   58  Services and Support   62  Technological and Operational Management Contents 74  ECONOMIC-fINANCIAl AND CApITAl MARkET pERfORMANCE   74 Economic-Financial Performance   82 Capital Market   88  SOCIOENvIRONMENTAl pERfORMANCE   89 Environmental Performance   92 Strategic Partnerships   100 Social Performance   120  ATTAChMENTS  130  CORpORATE INfORMATION 133  CREDITS  we are here to serve  OuR CuSTOMERS  While the last EMBRAER 190 jet we received is taking off on its  first flight, we proudly receive the 16th EMBRAER 190 jet in our fleet.  All of us feel like this is the best jet we have ever had! As head of  the KLM team, I would like to thank Embraer for all the help and  hospitality and full support, as well as the work done so that this  delivery would take place without stress. The Companys care  for its customers is very impressive. The employees who make  up Embraer should be proud of their country, their company and,  most importantly, of themselves. I have a sense of sadness when I  think that we will soon receive our last aircraft, and I will no longer  be in contact with this wonderful team.  gERTjAN lIChTENvElDT,  MANAgER, EMbRAER 190 flEET Of klM. Embraer has always offered one of the best aeronautical customer  support programs in the world. Its employees have always been very  efficient and committed, working fast and promptly. Once, we had a  hydraulic leak problem in an aircraft landing gear on a Friday night.  We needed support, and Embraer immediately stepped up to assist  us, contacting the supplier (ELEB), who took the part needed right  from the production line, and provided a technician accompany the  part and instruct TRIPs staff. This successful operation, and many  others, resulted from the partnership between Embraer and TRIP  employees who understood the urgency and set out to solve the  problem, even on a weekend. On Monday, the plane was operating  normally, with no effect on the flight schedules or customers.    EvANDRO bRAgA DE OlIvEIRA, MANAgEMENT DIRECTOR Of TRIp  lINhAS AREAS. Embraer is a company that values prompt customer service,  anticipating, whenever possible,  all problems that could arise. The  Support area works on alternating shifts and has teams and centers  for parts distribution in several parts of the world, which assures  speedy service. We are constantly called, most of the time because  of an aircraft on ground situation, literally  waiting for the availability  of a part so that it can continue operating. For instance, a customer  contacted us on a weekend, stating that he had an urgent need  to change a part. All the departments got together to assist him,  including our offices in France and China. Because we are present  in different parts of the world, there will always be staff on hand to  meet the needs of our customers. bRuNO lANgONI, CuSTOMER  SuppORT ANAlyST.  Embraer is a 42-year old company with a global presence and a focus on developing and manufacturing civilian and  military aircraft. Besides its units in Brazil, the Companys activities are carried out in administrative and industrial  facilities in the United States, France, Singapore, China and Portugal. It ended 2011 with a firm order backlog of  US$15.4 billion and 17,265 direct employees. Embraer was founded on August 19, 1969, as a mixed capital company under State control,  headquartered in So Jos dos Campos, So Paulo, Brazil, with a focus on developing and  manufacturing civilian and military aircraft. After privatization, in 1994, the Company began a  market expansion and diversification process, and is now involved in the commercial aviation,  executive aviation, and defense and security segments.  gri 2.4 In 2010, the Company changed its name from Embraer – Empresa Brasileira de Aeronutica  to Embraer S.A., which allowed it to expand and diversify its business areas. Besides develop- ing, producing and supporting its aircraft, the Company also began to engage in technological,  industrial, commercial, and service activities for the markets in which it is involved.  gri 2.1 I 2.6 Profile mbraer is one of the largest aerospace companies in the world, and is a world leader  in manufacturing commercial jets with up to 120 seats, which combine technology,  versatility, comfort, and safety. It is also one of the biggest Brazilian exporters, result- ing from the constant pursuit of corporate excellence and full customer satisfaction. In its  42-year history, the Company has delivered over 5,000 aircraft that operate on approximately  100 countries on five continents.   gri 2.5 | 2.7 E 16 annual report embraer 2011  Embraers stocks have been traded on the So Paulo Stock Exchange  (BM&FBOvESPA) since 1989. In 2006, the Company was first listed on  the New Market (Novo Mercado) and its capital was spread, with no con- trolling group or shareholder, and in line with the best global governance  and sustainability practices. Since 2000, Embraer has also been listed on  the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). As a result of innovative sustainability management, the Company has  been listed with BM&FBOvESPAs Corporate Sustainability Index (ndice  de Sustentabilidade Empresarial – ISE) since 2005. In 2011, for the second  consecutive year, it was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index  (DJSI), and earned the leadership of the Aerospace and Defense sector,  among 31 eligible companies, worldwide. At the end of 2011, Embraer had a firm order backlog of US$15.4 billion  and 17,265 direct employees: 15,989 in Brazil and 1,276 abroad. Its par- tially owned subsidiaries, employed 2,001 people. Global Presence   gri 2.3 | 2.5 | 2.7  Embraer invests in a global  presence, in order to offer products, services and support  that are  adequate to the needs of its customers in all markets. To that end, it  has industrial and operational units in Brazil and continues to expand  its operations in a number of countries. The Companys headquarters are located in Brazil, in the city of So  Jos dos Campos, So Paulo, where the Eugnio de Melo and ELEB  units are also established. The Company also has factories in the cit- ies of Gavio Peixoto and Botucatu, as well as logistical centers in the  cities of Taubat and Campinas, and two offices in So Paulo. Support for administrative, commercial and marketing activities is  provided by the offices in Melbourne and Fort Lauderdale, Florida  (U.S.), villepinte (France), Farnborough (U.K.), Dubai (United Arab  Emirates), Singapore, and Beijing (China). Abroad, Embraer has industrial facilities in China, the United States, and  Portugal. In China, Embraer holds 51% of the capital of Harbin Embraer  Aircraft Industry (HEAI), located in Harbin, in association with state- owned AvIC, which is in the process of being approved by the Chinese  government to eventually manufacture the Legacy 650 executive jet. In the United States, in February 2011, the Company inaugurated its  first executive jets factory outside of Brazil, in Melbourne, Florida. In  December, the facilities were complemented by the opening of the  newest Global Customer Center For Executive Jets. This new unit will  be initially dedicated to assembling Phenom jets and to supporting  the executive aviation business in the North American market. Fur- thermore, Embraer announced it was establishing an Engineering and  Technology Center, there, as part of the development of its aeronauti- cal operations in the United States. The Center will do research and  development on products and technology for all of Embraers busi- ness areas, and will be the second research and development center  established outside of the Companys headquarters in So Jos dos  Campos, Brazil. The first is located in the State of Minas Gerais, and  was announced in November 2011.  gri 2.9 In Portugal, Embraer is in the final construction phase of two new  centers of excellence for producing metallic structures and compos- ite materials, in vora, in the Alentejo region, where an aeronautics  hub is being installed. The new facilities will receive an investment on  the order of 170 million, and they are expected to be inaugurated  during the second half of 2012. After the assembly lines at the Harbin  (China) and Melbourne (Florida, U.S.) plants, vora will be Embraers  first full production unit outside of Brazil, as the Companys global  presence develops and its business areas diversify.  17 profile  At the beginning of 2012, Embraer Defense and  Security increased its stock holdings in Indstria  Aeronutica de Portugal S.A. (OGMA), which is  specialized in aeronautical maintenance and pro- duction. Up until that time, the control was shared  with the European Aeronautic Defense and Space  Company (EADS). Embraer Defense and Security  now holds 65% of OGMAs shares. The remain- ing 35% belong to the Portuguese government,  through the Portuguese Defense Company (Em- presa Portuguesa de Defesa – EMPORDEF), which  has also partnered with Embraer in the develop- ment of the KC-390 military cargo plane. In order to provide after-sale support, Embraer has  its own centers for services and the sale of replace- ment parts in So Jos dos Campos (So Paulo);  Fort Lauderdale (Florida), Mesa (Arizona), Nash- ville (Tennessee), and Windsor Locks (Connecti- cut) in the U.S.; in villepinte (near Roissy – Charles  de Gaulle Airport) in France; and in Singapore; as  well as a specialized network that already has some  60 Company-owned and authorized service cen- ters, worldwide. Embraer also has distribution cen- ters for replacement parts and specialized teams  in Louisville, Kentucky (U.S.), Beijing (China), and  Dubai (United Arab Emirates).  gri 2.7 uNITED STATES Fort Lauderdale Nashville Mesa Windsor Locks Louisville Minneapolis Melbourne 18 annual report embraer 2011  gri 2.5 uNITED kINgDOM Farnborough SINgApORE Singapore ChINA Beijing Harbin pORTugAl Alverca vora* * Em construo. bRAzIl So Jos dos Campos Gavio Peixoto Botucatu Taubat So Paulo  Countries with Operations  Factories  Offices  Service Centers  Authorized Service Centers   Spare Parts Distribution Centers  EMbRAERS WORlDWIDE OpERATIONS fRANCE Villepinte Le Bourget uNITED ARAb EMIRATES Dubai EMbRAERS WORlDWIDE OpERATIONS 19 profile  20 annual report embraer 2011  aWarDs anD recoGnITIon  gri 2.10  Embraers high standards  of governance, sustainability, management, occupational health and  safety practices, and quality of products were recognized in 2011 on a  number of occasions, several of which are highlighted here: SAM Sector Leader  2012   Embraer was evaluated as the best global com- pany of the Aerospace and Defense sector of the Dow Jones Sustain- ability Index (DJSI), and was recognized in the Sustainability Yearbook  2012. The Company was listed on the DJSI for the second consecutive  year, for which the 2,500 largest companies of the world are invited to  take part, according to the Dow Jones. Only 15% of the companies, from  58 different sectors, are selected for listing, because they are outstand- ing in their economic, environmental and social performance. Embraer  began to be listed with the index in 2010/2011, when it was ranked as  Gold Class, coming in second among the companies in its industry.  In 2011/2012, Embraer took over the leadership of this area, that has 31  eligible companies, worldwide.  Xv Transparency Trophy  2011  Granted by Anefac-Fipecafi-Serasa Expe- rien in recognition of the best financial statements published in Brazil.  Since 1999, Embraer has always been one of the most transparent of  the ten largest publically traded companies in Brazil, and in 2011, Em- braer won the trophy for the third time. 14th FINEP Innovation Award 2011  Embraer was recognized in the Large  Company category for its innovative technological management and  development processes (Strategic Planning, Technological Develop- ment Program, Integrated Product Development, Embraer Entre- preneurial Excellence Program (P3E), Knowledge Management, and  Managed Innovation Program). President & CEO Frederico Fleury Cu- rado received the Silver Trophy in recognition of the corporate culture  responsible for the success of the Company in the global aerospace  market. The ceremony took place Palcio do Planalto, in Braslia.  Recognition given to Embraer  in 2011 is evidence of the  Companys high standards. Some  of the highlights are awards for  sustainability, transparency,  innovation and people  management. Best Companies to Work For 2011  Great Place to Work Institute – Em- braer took 18th place in this ranking, in which it appeared for the  third consecutive year. The ranking was published in Editora Globos  poca magazine, and highlights the companies with the best man- agement practices, as evaluated in terms of credibility, respect, fair- ness, pride, and harmony. 150 Best Companies for You to Work For 2011  For the third consecutive  year, Embraer was included in this ranking done by Exame and Voc  S.A. magazines (Editora Abril), in a partnership with the Fundao  Instituto de Administrao (FIA). 30 Best in People Management  2011  Embraer took 4th place among the  companies with more than 10,000 employees, in the ranking of Val- or Carreira magazine, Valor Econmico newspaper, and AON Hewitt  Consultants. Floridas Best Companies to Work For 2011  Embraer was recognized as one  of the best companies to work for in the State of Florida, U.S., according  to a poll taken by Florida Trend magazine. 2011 Impact Award by the Melbourne Regional Chamber of Commerce   (Florida)  Recognition for Embraers contribution to the local economy,  by developing its final assembly plant for the Phenom executive jets,  as well as its new Global Customer Center for Executive Jets. 21 profile  I dreamed of becoming a teacher, studying four years at the University  of Uberlndia. And I accomplished that dream. But one day I decided  to try another career. I went to Embraer and  worked in many areas in  the company.  Im proud to say that I was the first woman to become  a Production Manager at Embraer. Then, the Botucatu plant was  given a very important job: increase production output while the plant  kept operating at full steam. It was like changing a cars tire with the  vehicle in motion. That required extensive work with the leadership.  Everything had to be planned and calculated. As a result, work  processes were reduced by half, and costs related to lack of quality,  by 25%. Now manufacturing is leaner and more efficient with better  and safer working conditions. Pursuing excellence is part of who I am.  I want to something that works and will be perpetuated. Today, my  team of 387 employees and I are much better than we were when we  received the challenge.  SIlvIA MORAlES, pRODuCTION MANAgER Of  EMbRAERS plANT IN bOTuCATu, SO pAulO. Embraer is a company very focused on business excellence. With  the creation of Embraers Business Excellence Program (P3E), part of  it based on Japanese methodology, the company uses tools for the  continual improvement of its processes, in the productive, as well  as in the administrative environments. Within the aviation market,  Embraer is one of the worlds three references in business excellence  and is focused on overcoming its obstacles in order to become the  leader. By avoiding waste, the company will generate reductions  in costs while it creates productive gains.  MASAMORI MIuRA,  CONSulTANT Of ThE jApANESE COMpANy ShINgIjuTSu. Excellence is the foundation on which we build our processes. A  vision of excellence helps us identify the opportunities that make us  prosper. Our objective is to become the best in everything we do.  Thus, we can ensure the endurance of our services and Embraers  future. Last year, we executed an improvement project (Kaizen),  which completely changed the way in which we provide customer  service. The creation of the Repair Emergency Support System  (R.E.S.S.) has helped us to understand exactly what is expected  from us. The result is a rendering of services, focused on what really  matters to our customer. This project was awarded as the best  Embraer Kaizen in North America. This major achievement has  made it evident how our vision of excellence has no boundaries.  Our objective is not merely to achieve excellence, but to maintain it.   jASON A. gONzAlEz, SENIOR MANAgER IN REpAIR MANAgEMENT IN  fT. lAuDERDAlE, fl.  we strive for  COMpANy  ExCEllENCE   Adhering to best practices of corporate governance, and listed with the New  Market of So Paulos BM&FBOVESPA, Embraer has widespread capital,  with no controlling group or shareholder. Such issues as sustainability, ethics,  conduct and risk management are handled with integrity by governance  agencies, with an eye to the security and the perpetuity of the business. Corporate  Governance mbraers model for corporate governance has the broad and unrestricted commitment  of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors and complies with the highest level of  governance in Brazil and the United States. This model seeks to ensure corporate management with integrity, focusing on sustainable growth  and the perpetuity of the business. Since 2006, Embraer S.A. has been a Brazilian company with  widespread capital, without a controlling group or shareholder. The corporate restructuring approved during that year unified the Companys classes of stocks  in circulation into just one class of common stocks, extending the right to vote to all sharehold- ers and allowing it to join the New Market (Novo Mercado) of the So Paulo Stock Exchange  BM&FBOvESPA, which lists the companies that have the best corporate governance practices.  That restructuring also preserved the rights of the Federal government, which holds special Golden  Share that gives it the right to veto subjects that are considered to be strategic for the Company  and for the Federal Republic of Brazil.  gri 4.4 E 24 annual report embraer 2011  enTrePreneurIal PhIlosoPhy  gri 4.8 Vision Embraer will continue to establish itself as one of the  principal global forces of the Aeronautics and Defense  and Security markets, as a leader in the segments in  which it is engaged, and recognized for the levels of  excellence of its corporate actions.  Business Embraers business is to generate value for its  shareholders, via the full satisfaction of its customers.  Generating value means maximizing the value of  the Company and guaranteeing its perpetuity, with  integrity of conduct and a social and environmental  conscience. The Company concentrates on three business  and market areas: Commercial Aviation, Executive  Aviation, and Defense and Security.   Values The values that mold attitudes and unite actions that ensure the  perpetuity of the Company are:   Our people are what make us fly – People who are happy,  competent, appreciated, fulfilled and committed to what they  do. People who work as a team and act with integrity, coherence,  respect and mutual trust.   We are here to serve our customers – Winning the loyalty of  customers by fully satisfying them and by building strong and  long-lasting relationships. Establishing partnerships based on true  commitment and flexibility.   We strive for company excellence – Entrepreneurial action focusing  on simplicity, agility, flexibility and security, with a constant  pursuit of continuous improvement and excellence. An enterprising  attitude based on integrated planning, responsible delegation, and  disciplined execution.   Boldness and innovation are our hallmarks – Technological  forerunner, organization the continuously learns, capacity to  innovate, to transform internal reality, and to influence markets  in which it is engaged. Strategic vision and capacity to overcome  challenges with creativity and courage.   Global presence is our frontier – Global thinking and presence, with  local action, to leverage competitiveness, by using the best that is  available in each place. Vision of a world without borders and of  giving value to diversity.   We build a sustainable future – Incessant pursuit of building  the bases for the perpetuity of the Company, with profitability  for shareholders, as well as respect for quality of life, for the  environment, and for society. 25 corporate governance  The shareholding changes and the alterations in the Companys By- Laws also ensure 100% tag along rights, which give all shareholders  the same rights, if an offer is made to purchase the Company. To dis- courage an excessive concentration of American Depositary Shares  (ADS), no shareholder, or group of shareholders, is allowed to vote  in a General Assembly representing more than 5% of the number  of shares into which the Companys capital is divided.   gri 4.4 | 4.6 The Bylaws also ensure that the decisions of the Company, which  are made in a General Assembly, have a majority of their votes  granted to Brazilian shareholders, as set forth during the privatiza- tion of the Company in 1994. Therefore, the total number of votes  allowed in any General Assembly to foreign shareholders is limited  to 40% of the votes present. Also, it is prohibited to acquire 35%, or  more, of the Companys capital, except with the express authoriza- tion of the Federal government, and subject to the presentation of a  Public Acquisition Offer (PAO). It is Embraers understanding that good practices of corporate gov- ernance are essential to the perpetuity of the Company, and it works  to increasingly improve those practices. In 2011, in order to align the  concepts regarding this subject, the Company, in a partnership with  the Brazilian Corporate Governance Institute (instituto brasileiro de  governana corporativa – IBGC), formed a corporate management  training program, with personal presentations directed at all lead- ership levels. The presentations were also made available on the  Intranet, via Embraers Ethics site.  gri 4.7 ShAREhOlDINg STRuCTuRE   gri 2.3 | 2.8  To support its operations,  Embraer has a corporate structure that is focused on meeting the  demands and particular needs of each country where it is involved,  as well as improving, organizing and optimizing the management  of the companies of the Group, providing for the integration of all  operations and customer satisfaction. 26 annual report embraer 2011  Elected in an Extraordinary General Assembly,  on  March 6, 2012 1 1.  Alexandre Gonalves Silva  Chairman 2.  Hermann Heinemann Wever  vice Chairman  3.  Aprgio Eduardo de Moura Azevedo  Named by the Federal Government 4.  Arno Hugo Augustin Filho  5.  Claudemir Marques de Almeida  Named by Employees 6.  Israel Vainboim  7.  Joo Cox Neto  8.  Josu Christiano Gomes da Silva  9.  Samir Zraick  10.  Satoshi Yokota  Named by Employees 11.  Sergio Eraldo de Salles Pinto  12.  Vitor Paulo Camargo Gonalves  13.  Wilson Carlos Duarte Delfino 1Subsequent event. bOARD Of DIRECTORS   4. 2. 9. 3. 13. 8. 5. 6. 10. 11. 12. 7. 1. 28 annual report embraer 2011  boarD oF DIrecTors  gri 4.1  It is the responsibility of the Board  of Directors (BD) to establish the guidelines and overall direction of  the business, plans and goals, the annual budget, and investment  programs of Embraer S.A. The Board also follows up on the perfor- mance of the Company in the markets in which it is engaged, hires in- dependent auditors, and decides on stock issues and bonuses. Elect- ing and dismissing members of the Executive Board and overseeing  management are also the Boards responsibility. The Board is formed by 13 full members and their respective substi- tutes, all of whom are elected to a two-year mandate in a General  Assembly.  Ten of the 13 members are independent. As the one holding the spe- cial Golden Share, the Federal government has the right to name a  member. Employees can also name two representatives, one from  the Embraer Employee Investment Club (Clube de Investimentos dos  Empregados da Embraer – CIEMB) and one elected directly by em- ployees who are not shareholders.  gri 4.3 | 4.4 In order to strengthen even more the Companys corporate gover- nance practices and at the request of shareholders, the Board has  performed a self-evaluation process of its performance, since 2010.    gri 4.5 | 4.10 In January 2012, then-Chairman of the Board of Directors Maurcio  Novis Botelho left the Company. As President & CEO of Embraer from  1995 to 2007, Maurcio Botelho led the restructuring, growth and in- ternationalization process of the Company after it was privatized, and  held the position of Chairman of the Board of Directors, since 2006. The Board of Directors is responsible for setting guidelines and following up on the Companys performance. Formed by 13 members, ten of whom are independent, it has three auxiliary committees for Strategy, Audit and Risks, and Human Resources. According to the Companys Bylaws, vice Chairman Hermann  Heinemann Wever assumed the Chairmanship of the Board, until the  date of the Extraordinary General Assembly (AGE), which elected  the new Chairman, Alexandre Gonalves Silva. At the same meeting,  the election of Arno Hugo Augustin Filho as a full member of the  board was approved.  gri 4.2 AuxIlIARy COMMITTEES  gri 4.1 | 4.9  Three auxiliary committees as- sist the Board of Directors in areas that are considered to be priorities  by Embraer, and may have up to five members, each. Strategy Committee  CIt is the job of the Strategy Committee to assist  the Board of Directors in establishing the policies and guidelines of the  Companys Strategic Plan and Action Plan, with their objectives, macro  projects and assessment of potential opportunities for new business, be- sides closely following management and results. 29 corporate governance  audit and riSk Committee  gri 4.11  According to a decision of the  Extraordinary General Assembly held in January 2012, the name  of the Risk Committee was changed to Audit and Risk Commit- tee, which allowed it to accumulate the work of risk management  and statutory audits, as found in Instruction no. 509, November 16,  2011, of Brazils Securities and Exchange Commission (Comisso de  valores Mobilirios) and in line with U.S. legislation, especially the  Sarbanes-Oxley (SOx) Act. Assists the Board of Directors in identifying and managing the busi- ness risks inherent to the Companys activities, in evaluating the ad- equacy of the models, guidelines and policies for risk management,  and in checking the managerial and accounting information released  to the public and to regulatory agencies. Among the responsibilities inherent to auditing is deciding on the  firm to be responsible the external audit and related values. The  Committee is responsible for supervising the external audit and for  adopting any necessary measures for knowing and gathering com- plaints regarding the financial statements, internal controls, and the  independent audit. It also oversees the quality of the financial reports,  compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and evaluations,  and the management of the Companys qualifications. Human reSourCeS Committee   This Committee assists the Board  members with the following activities: electing and dismissing Com- pany directors; establishing their respective functions; setting the  human resources and remuneration policies, including criteria for  remuneration, rights, advantages, and compensation for administra- tors; managing programs for granting options to buy Company stock;  and authorizing the transfer of funds to employee associations and to  assistance, recreational and private pension organizations. FIscal boarD    As the organ for overseeing administrative acts, the  Fiscal Board is a standing committee formed by at least three and no more  than five full members and an equal number of substitutes (shareholders  or not) elected in a Regular General Assembly for an annual mandate. The  Fiscal Board meets quarterly to analyze the financial statements, and at  other times when called by its president, either on his own initiative or at  the request of one of the members. COMpOSITION Of ThE fISCAl bOARD  on March 6, 2012 Ivan Mendes do Carmo President  Eduardo Coutinho Guerra Vice President  Adolpho Gonalves Nogueira FB Members Jos Mauro Laxe Vilela Taiki Hirashima eXecuTIVe boarD  Named by the Board of Directors for a two- year mandate, the Executive Board is charged with managing the  Company, and its responsibilities are set forth in the Bylaws. The Executive Board follows the strategic plan and is evaluated accord- ing to the achievement of economic, financial, operational, and socio- environmental goals set forth in the Action Plan. Meeting those goals  serves as the basis for the remuneration of the Executive Board, which  is assisted by the Finance, Ethics and Sustainability Committees. 30 annual report embraer 2011  5. On June 4, 2012  1.  Frederico Pinheiro   Fleury Curado  President & CEO 2.  Antonio Jlio Franco  Executive vice President, People  3.  Artur Aparecido   Valrio Coutinho  COO 4.  Ernest Edwards  President, Executive Jets 5.  Flvio Rmoli  Executive vice   President & General Counsel 6.  Jackson Medeiros   de Farias Schneider  Senior vice President,   Institutional Relations 7.  Jose Antonio  de Almeida Filippo  Executive vice President & CFO 8.  Lus Carlos Affonso  Senior vice President, New Programs 9.  Luiz Carlos Siqueira Aguiar  CEP, Embraer Defense and Security 10.  Mauro Kern Junior  Executive vice President, Engineering  and Technology 11.  Paulo Cesar de Souza e Silva  President, Commercial Aviation COMpOSITION Of ThE  ExECuTIvE bOARD 3. 6. 11. 8. 4. 10. 7. 2. 9. 1. 31 corporate governance  SuSTAINAbIlITy AND EThICS ON ThE ExECuTIvE bOARD  The issue of  sustainability began to carry more weight in the strategic planning of  Embraer S.A., in 2011, with the creation of the office of the vice Presi- dent of Sustainability and Organizational Development and of the De- partment of Sustainability. The objective is to align the several initia- tives focusing on the environment and eco-efficiency within the same  master plan, thus strengthening its strategies and promoting greater  interaction among its stakeholders, as well as social development and  the dissemination of sustainable practices throughout the value chain. This vision of sustainability is founded on three pillars: excellence in  governance and transparency in supporting sustainable economic  growth, protection for the environment throughout the entire value  chain, and expansion of relations with society through education. In 2011, Embraer hired a consulting firm to perform a materiality  study of priority subjects that integrate sustainability with corporate  strategy.  gRI 3.5 Created in 2009, the Sustainability Committee is the expression of  Embraers commitment to ethics, transparency and the perpetuity  of the business. The Committee reports to the Executive Board, and  its main responsibilities are to propose better sustainability practices  and to monitor projects and indicators, in order to ensure that the  goals are achieved during the annual planning cycle. The Committee also provides support for the preparation of the  Annual Report and for the evaluation of Embraer to take part in the  sustainability indexes, sets responsibilities, follow-up and guidance  for projects, and supports the development of the Companys sus- tainability strategy, based on the economic-financial, environmental,  health and safety, people, and well-being guidelines. 32 annual report embraer 2011  The Ethics Committee is composed of five members named by the  Executive Board to assist with issues involving adherence to Em- braers ethical principles and values, as set forth in its Code of Eth- ics and Conduct. The duty of this Committee is to receive, record,  evaluate and discuss complaints entering through the Channel for  Reporting Misconduct, or from any other sources. If they are deemed  to be appropriate, the complaints will be shared with the executive  who is responsible for the people involved and will be followed up  with information and any recommendations the Committee deems  appropriate. Another duty of the Ethics Committee is to clarify any  doubts regarding the Companys ethical values. The Executive Board also has the support of specialized consultants  and auditing firms that contribute to improving the management pro- cess, the development of innovative solutions based on best practic- es and on new methodologies, processes and controls. The objective  of this assistance is to raise the levels of competitiveness and excel- lence and to ensure the sustainability of Embraers activities, besides  prevent and reduce potential risks and prospect new opportunities  for improvement.   gri 4.11 RElATIONShIp WITh INDEpENDENT AuDITORS  Embraer has a policy of  presenting all services not related to the external audit performed by  independent auditors to the Fiscal Board for approval. In 2011, the Com- pany did not hire other services not related to the external audit from its  independent auditors, but the external audit was performed at all of the  companies of the group, worldwide.  PolIcIes  The corporate policies for Financial Management, Quality,  the Environment, Occupational Health and Safety, and Flight Safety  establish guidelines for the work of all employees and are constantly  evaluated in terms of their adequacy, in light of Embraers values and  the best market practices integrated with the Embraer Entrepreneur- ial Excellence Program (P3E).   fINANCIAl MANAgEMENT pOlICy  The guidelines for managing corpo- rate finances related to cash flow and the capital structure of the Com- pany are set forth in the Financial Management Policy, approved by the  Board of Directors. The indicators of this management are monitored  and reported to the Finance Committee, Executive Board, to the Audit  and Risk Committee, and to the Board of Directors, via a report on the  existing opportunities and risks and comments regarding the opera- tions and the progress of mitigating actions. QuAlITy pOlICy  Since 1996, Embraer has been certified accord- ing to the requirements of ISO 9001 and, since 2002, according  to AS 9100 (standard for quality management systems for avia- tion, space and defense organizations). With the beginning of the  Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program (P3E), in 2007, these  requirements were made more detailed and extended to all people  at Embraer who are involved in the pursuit of the continuous im- provement of administrative and operational processes.  Creating the Vice Presidency for  Sustainability and Organizational  Development, as well as the  Sustainability Department, aligned  the strategic role of this subject  with the best practices adopted by  the market in terms of business  management. Furthermore, this  brings issues involving Embraers  principles and ethical values into  the realm of the Executive Board  through the Ethics Committee. 33 corporate governance  As a result of the organizational diagnosis performed in 2010, the  implementation of the Criteria for Excellence of the National Qual- ity Foundation (analogous to the European Foundation for Quality  Management and The Foundation for the Malcolm Baldrige National  Quality Award) was begun. At the end of the year, an independent  evaluation showed a significant improvement in the degree of matu- rity of Embraers management.  Embraers Quality Policy is based on full customer satisfaction,  through products and services that meet the most up-to-date stan- dards of quality and integrity. The following general guidelines sup- port this policy:   Design, produce and support products with intrinsic quality and  adequate safety;   Focus on activities on preventive actions;   Ensure that all employees know, understand and comply with the  quality requirements of their work, in a responsible manner;   Ensure best environmental and occupational health and safety  practices;  Eliminate waste and everything that does not add value;   Ensure the continuous improvement of all business processes by  involving people and teams at all levels, with a focus on customer  satisfaction;   Focus on human beings as the fundamental component of the en- tire evolution process of the Company. INTEllECTuAl pROpERTy MANAgEMENT pOlICy  Embraer recognizes the  need to protect the rights and results of intellectual creation arising  from investments in technological research and development it carries  out and that come in the form of inventions, industrial design, brands,  processes, systems, software, or products. In this context, and with an  eye to perpetuating its business, Embraer approved its Policy for Man- aging Intellectual Property, in 2007, committing itself to:   Ensuring the generation of technological knowledge, which is  aligned with its strategic and business interests;   Giving incentive to innovation and creativity as means of promoting  technological development and ensuring the competitive edge of  its products and services;   Ensuring the protection and registration of intellectual property  resulting from the knowledge and innovation generated within the  Company, based on applicable legislation in the pertinent areas;   Using the economic value incorporated in the intellectual property,  with a focus on increasing the competitiveness of distinctive and  innovative products, processes and services, as well as exploring  new business opportunities;   Respecting the intellectual property rights of third parties and in- sisting that its own rights be respected. ENvIRONMENT AND OCCupATIONAl hEAlTh AND SAfETy pOlICy  gri  4.11  Respect for the environment and promoting occupational health  and safety are priorities for Embraer and are integrated with the  Companys processes and plans. The Environment and Occupational  Health and Safety Policy, which has been widely disseminated in the  Company, since 2009, provides for seeking to perform all of its op- erations in an environmentally sustainable, safe and healthy manner. Corporate policies guide Embraers  involvement with issues related  to financial management,  quality, intellectual property, the  environment, occupational health  and safety, and flight safety. These  guidelines are constantly evaluated,  in terms of their adherence to the  Companys values and to the best  market practices. 34 annual report embraer 2011  Among the guidelines of this policy, which must be observed at all  management levels, are employee awareness, continuous improve- ment, and compliance with the legislation and requirements for the  environment and occupational health and safety, including on the  part of suppliers and service providers, as well as the adoption of pre- ventive practices, corrective actions and innovative solutions. flIghT SAfETy pOlICy  gri 4.11  Embraer considers the safety of its  products to be a question of ethics and a fundamental pillar of its  entrepreneurial excellence and sustainability. The Flight Safety Policy  permeates the entire Company and gives incentive to the continuous  and rigorous commitment of the employees and all leadership levels  to building aircraft that are increasingly safer and that do not merely  meet, but surpass, national and international certification standards. For the Company, product safety is essential for its competitive edge.  For that reason, employees are encouraged to report risk situations,  ensure that the information regarding results gets to the individu- als affected, and that the necessary changes be made for alignment  with safety recommendations. They also are encouraged to adhere  to and promote a flight safety culture that respect the guidance of  the Operational Safety Management System (Sistema de Gesto da  Segurana Operacional – SGSO) and the Operational Safety Manage- ment Manual (Manual de Gesto da Segurana Operacional – MGSO),  as well as contribute to disseminating this policy at all levels of the  Company, and with suppliers and customers. rIsK ManaGeMenT   gri 1.2 e 4.11  Structured risk management  processes are applied to Embraers various corporate levels, with an  eye to transparency, safety and the perpetuity of the operations and  material and financial resources used. Together with the best corpo- rate governance practices, these processes pay careful attention to  the demands, standards and regulations of the aerospace segment at  the national and international levels. Managing corporate risks is the  responsibility of a dedicated Department, created in 2011 to assist  the Executive Board and the vice President of Finance and Investor  Relations (CFO). The Risk Committee, created in 2010, was renamed the Audit and Risk  Committee, in 2012, by accumulating audit responsibilities. All of the  member of this committee are members of the Board of Directors.  Subordinate to this new committee is the newly created Internal Audit  area. All of the management processes and their results are periodi- cally discussed with the Executive Board and presented to the Audit  and Risk Committee, the Fiscal Board, and the Board of Directors.  35 corporate governance  The management practices of corporate governance adopted by   Embraer are now extended to the companies in which it acquired  shares in 2011: Harpia Sistemas S.A. (51%), AEL Sistemas (25%),  Atech Negcios em Tecnologias S.A. (50%), and the radar division  of OrbiSat da Amaznia S.A. (90%).   OpERATIONS  The processes that will be evaluated during the year to  cover operational risks are proposed to the Audit and Risk Commit- tee, annually. In 2011, the inventory processes of third parties were  evaluated, as were those of indirect supplies and aeronautical mate- rials, in order to provide greater levels of detail and effectiveness for  the procedures, and vigor for the processes. The results of the operational risk evaluations are presented and dis- cussed with the respective managers and, later, with Embraers Audit  and Risk Committee, under the coordination of the Internal Risks and  Controls area. MARkET  The planning and market risk management in the commer- cial aviation, executive aviation and defense and security segments  are based on permanently monitoring the world market in which  Embraer is involved, and its principal trends. Among Embraers main market risks are the cooling of the world- wide economy, with a prolonged recession in such developed mar- kets as the United States and Europe, the expansion of tariff and  non-tariff barriers to the Companys products, the scarcity of credit  in the international financial market for aircraft financing, and in- creased costs in Brazil, due to inflation and over-valuation of the  Real, and increased taxes. The creation of a business unit dedicated to the Defense and Secu- rity segment, in 2011, has allowed Embraer to be less dependent on  the behavior of the aerospace market, which is still feeling the ef- fects of the international economic crisis that began in 2008. With  the diversification of its operations, the Company is prepared for  eventual market risks. fINANCIAl  Embraer has developed and implemented a number of  projects for reducing risks in business processes and information  systems. The general control climate was revised, by improving the  corporate structure for internal controls, in compliance with the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act, section 404: a control structure for relevant  processes of financial statements, in line with the Public Companies  Audit Oversight Board (PCAOB). In order to provide better financial support for sales and operations,  with the possibility of access to short-term financial resources at  previously negotiated rates, Embraer signed a credit operation of   US$1 billion, in September 2010, with 25 international financial insti- tutions. That amount will be available until September 2013 in two  lines of credit: US$400 million for pre-financing exports and US$600  million for financing working capital. To mitigate exchange risks, managing cash allocations is one of the  main tools used, thus neutralizing exchange exposure by choosing  assets denominated in reals (R$) or dollars (US$). In 2011, the Com- pany restructured its long-term debts, in order to ensure greater se- curity for its operations. The Company also performed hedge opera- tions to reduce cash flow exposure. 36 annual report embraer 2011  37 corporate governance  IMAgE  The constant, proactive and transparent relations of the Com- pany with its stakeholders helps mitigate possible image risks. Em- braer communicates, in advance, to the market and other stakehold- ers regarding issues that could present a risk to its operations and to  its brand. The image perceived by stakeholders is also  built on good relations with investors and  analysts, through meetings, participation in  conferences and roadshows, regular visits  to the Company, disclosure of results and  news via releases and constantly updating  the website. One of the recognitions of this proactive and  transparent attitude is Embraers presence  on the ISE and DJSI sustainability indexes.  The perception of the Company, internally,  is also important to Embraer, which is proud  of the continuous improvement of the or- ganizational climate study indexes, which  achieved 81% favorability, in 2011.  As for the public, in general, the various social initiatives of the Em- braer Education and Research Institute – particularly Embraer Juarez  Wanderley High School, which provides free, quality education in the  So Jos dos Campos region – strengthen the Companys image in  the community. lEgAl  Embraer takes part in all of the steps of the process of manufac- turing its aircraft, from the development project to after-sale support.  Concern for legally protecting the intellectual property of the innova- tions generated by the Companys research and development is seen  in the significant increase in patent requests. From  2003 to 2011, 87 were requested and 43 were  granted, with 17 coming in 2011, alone. Embraer  has over 400 registered trademarks. In order to financially safeguard itself against  eventual legal risks, the Company provisioned  R$118 million, during the year, which it consid- ers to be sufficient for covering any losses arising  from eventual labor and tax lawsuits.  SEC  The Company has been fully cooperating with  the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission  (SEC) and the U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ)  in an ongoing investigation regarding the possible  non-compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt  Practices Act (FCPA). It hired outside lawyers to  conduct the investigation process regarding trans- actions performed in three countries. These professionals have main- tained regular contact with the SEC and the DoJ, and has been furnish- ing documents and information to both agencies, whenever requested.  Embraers Code of Ethics  and Conduct is based on  the Companys values and  on the principles set forth  in the UN Global Compact.  Launched in 2011, the  Ethics website presents the  content of the document  and establishes a direct  channel for presenting  questions and doubts. 38 annual report embraer 2011  ENvIRONMENT AND ClIMATE ChANgE  gri ec2  Embraer assesses op- portunities associated with its activities, in order to mitigate the  effects of global warming and to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG)  emissions, such as controlling consumption, changing the energy  matrix, and developing new technologies and new products. In 2011, the Company revised the process for identifying environ- mental risks and climate change, as part of building the organiza- tions Sustainability Policy. coDe oF eThIcs anD conDucT  gri 4.8 | so3  Embraers Code  of Ethics and Conduct reflects its commitment to achieve corporate  social responsibility objectives, by giving value to its relationships  with shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers, preserving  the environment, and contributing to the development of the com- munities where it is involved. The Code is based on Embraers values and on the principles estab- lished by the UN Global Compact, which the Company formally joined,  in 2008. The Code supports the pursuit of good corporate governance  and accounting practices, of transparent, objective and timely commu- nication, and of actions and decisions that are always handled respon- sibly and honestly, with quality, trust, respect and loyalty. The Code also applies to Embraers subsidiaries, in Brazil and abroad,  in absolute harmony with the legislation and with the best corporate  governance practices of the countries where the Company is present.  All employees receive a copy of the document, upon being hired, or  every time their contracts are updated, and thus they formalize their  adherence to the Code. Currently, the Code is being revised for the third time, to be approved  by the Executive Board (Ethics Committee) and the Board of Directors  (Human Resources Committee and Audit and Risk Committee). Based  on this, it will be presented via a specific communication plan all of the  Companys stakeholders and to the public, in general, on its website. EThICS WEbSITE  gri 4.4  In 2011, Embraers Ethics website was  launched, where information is made available regarding corporate  ethics and conduct to employees and the other stakeholders. The site  has a section for directly communicating questions with the Ethics  Committee. The answers can be published on the site, to assist with  clarifying the doubts of other people. In 2011, Human Resource directors and professionals received eth- ics training. The other leaders attended presentations regarding per- son and corporate ethics, which are available to all employees of the  means of internal communication.  2012 OCT/2011 MAR/2010 Revision of Code of  Ethics and Conduct Creation of  Embraer Ethics Site 2nd version of Code of  Ethics and Conduct 39 corporate governance  ChANNEl fOR REpORTINg MISCONDuCT   gri 4.4 | so2  The Channel  for Reporting Misconduct complements the various communication  channels between Embraer and its stakeholders. It is managed by an  independent company, for the purpose of maintaining the anonymity  and confidentiality of the reports, and makes it possible for any per- son to inform of any eventual violation of Embraers Code of Ethics  and Conduct, best sustainable practices, and even corporate gover- nance, such as, violation of the U.S. Foreign Practice Corruption Act  (FCPA) or the rules of Brazils Securities and Exchange Commission  (CvM) and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The Channel for Reporting Misconduct is available in three distinct forms:   Correspondence to P.O. Box 11.331 CEP 05422-970 – So Paulo/ SP – Brazil;   Embraers website (www.embraer.com.br), on the home page, click  on the Channel for Reporting Misconduct icon, or fill out the form  in the Contact Us section;  Embraer intranet, with direct access by employees. reportS reCeived  In 2011, the Channel for Reporting Misconduct  received 316 reports, which was 23% less than the previous year. Of  the total reports delivered, 7.6% were considered to be appropriate. The Companys Intranet was the means most used, and in 2011, rep- resented 82% of all the reports delivered, which shows the credibility  of the mechanism and of the commitment to confidentiality and ano- nymity in the eyes of employees for dealing with the subjects received. ParTIcIPaTIon anD suPPorT For VolunTeer InITIaTIVes  anD assocIaTIons  gri 4.12 | 4.13  Embraer supports and adopts  principles and commitments that contribute to social, environmental  and economic development, and to the continuous improvement of its  management. As a signer of the U.N. Global Compact, since 2008, the Company  has made a commitment to develop policies and strategies and imple- ment actions for the purpose of promoting human rights, labor rights,  respect for the environment, and fighting corruption. ORIgINS AND TOTAl REpORTS RECEIvED Year  Intranet Website Mail E-mail Total  2009 320 90 6 12 428 2010 344 50 14 1 409 2011 258 44 4 10 316 82% 14% 4% AvAIlAblE MEANS   AccumulAted  2011 Intranet  Internet Mail  40 annual report embraer 2011  Since 2006, Embraer has actively taken part in the Latin America  Companies Circle, which now has 19 companies. This group was cre- ated on the recommendation of the Latin American Corporate Gover- nance Round Table, represented by public authorities, investors, NGOs,  stock exchanges, and associations, as well as other stakeholders, for  the purpose of perfecting and disseminating corporate governance  practices in the region. Embraer is also associated with the following institutions: Brazilian In- stitute of Corporate Governance (IBGC), Brazilian Association of Pub- lically Traded Companies (ABRASCA), Brazilian Institute of Investor  Relations (IBRI), and National Investors Institute (INI). Embraer has taken part in different industry initiatives that seek to  make the development of biokerosene more dynamic, including: the  Brazilian Alliance for Biofuels in Aviation (ABRAPA); the Sustainable  Aviation Fuel Users Group (SAFUG); the European Consortium Sus- tainable Way for Alternative Fuels and Energy for Aviation (SWAFEA);  and the American Commercial Aviation Alternative Fuels Initiative  (CAAFI). In this field, the highlight goes to partnerships with General  Electric, in developing sustainable biofuels for aviation, and with Boe- ing and the Foundation for Research Assistance of the State of So  Paulo, for a future biofuels research center in Brazil. The Company takes part in the Aerospace vehicle Systems Institute,  which discusses issues that affect the aerospace community, and also  in the Brazilian Association of Intellectual Property (ABPI), and a whole  series of institutions in Brazil and abroad that are dedicated to research,  like the Agency for Science Technology and Research (ASTAR), from  Singapore. Embraer formally joined several volunteer initiatives for reporting GHG  emissions, like the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program, as one of the  founding members, and the Carbon Disclosure Project, in which it has  participated since 2008. 41 corporate governance  Embraers beginnings were based on boldness and innovation.  It still has these characteristics, because boldness and  innovation are necessary for competing with other aeronautical  companies in the world. But theres more. Embraer has a great  relationship with the consumer market and with the research  community in Brazil. It has an excellent team of professionals,  mainly technicians and engineers who know how to identify  opportunities, and academic partners who are able to transform  them into competitive advantages. CARlOS hENRIQuE DE bRITO  CRuz, SCIENTIfIC DIRECTOR Of fApESp. The fact that Embraer has a program focused on developing new  technologies shows how innovation is important to the daily  lives of its employees. Since the Companys founding, boldness  and innovation have been part of its culture. Our process for  establishing technological strategy opens doors to a future  without barriers. We have established cooperative technological  relationships with the aim of exploring ways to further enhance  the competitiveness of our products and services. For instance,  projects partnered with USP, UFSCar, and UFSC are responsible  for developing more comfortable aircraft passenger cabins. via  a technology demonstration device, we can reproduce all of  the real flight experiences of a passenger cabin, which assists  in developing methodologies for modeling and simulating  passenger comfort. This is only one example of how we create  an even better future at Embraer. lEONARDO bASTOS DE TOlEDO,  pRODuCT DEvElOpMENT ENgINEER AND EMbRAER EMplOyEE fOR  12 yEARS. I was a young man, living in the city of Bauru and dreaming of  becoming an aeronautical engineer. I was frustrated to see that  all the airplanes that operated in Brazil were imported from the  United States. In the 40s, there were no aeronautical engineering  courses in Brazil. I began with the Brazilian Air Force Academy  and graduated as an Military Aviator, in 1951. In 1950, the  Aeronautics Technological Institute (ITA) was founded and I was  given a scholarship from the Air Force to become an aeronautical  engineer, achieving my first dream. I and other engineers from ITA  noticed that small and medium-sized Brazilian cities did not have  air transportation service, because there wasnt a suitable aircraft  on the world market. So, we designed the BANDEIRANTE aircraft,  and its prototype flew for the first time on October 22, 1968. The  search for production alternatives led us, on a lucky day in 1969,  to meeting with the President of Brazil, Artur da Costa e Silva. The  result of that meeting was the creation of EMBRAER. Yes, we have  had some setbacks. But we pursued our dreams, believing that,  one day, we would become the big company we now are. It was a  seed that bore wonderful fruit. Today, I applaud from the front row,  as I see how far we have come. Our EMBRAER is a good example  of what can be accomplished with great effort and persistence.  Keep it up, friends! EMbRAER fOuNDER OzIRES SIlvA.  are our hallmarks bOlDNESS AND INNOvATION   With a strategic planning horizon of 15 years, Embraer pursues the  perpetuity of its business, by expanding its business and the value generated  for its shareholders. For the coming years, the Company intends to continue  the growth path of its three businesses, study new opportunities for  investment, and focus its efforts on continuous improvement, technology,  innovation, and adopting best practices. mbraers management model is based on planning and carrying out short-, me- dium-, and long-term actions and projects. The Strategic Plan has a 15-year hori- zon and establishes macro-strategies and macro-projects that should bring greater  value for the Company. In order to define its short- and medium-term involvements, which will support future actions,  Embraer uses a corporate management tool, called the Action Plan, with a two-year horizon,  and that establishes operational, economic-financial, and sustainability results for the entire  Company, fully aligned with the Strategic Plan. STRATEgy fOR ThE COMINg yEARS  Embraers strategy for the coming years provides for the fol- lowing objectives, focusing on growth, the perennial nature of the business, and on generating  value for shareholders: Operational  Performance  E gri 1.2 44 annual report embraer 2011  Commercial aviation: solidify its leadership position in segment for  commercial airplanes up to 120 seats, taking into consideration im- provements in the EMBRAER 170/190 E-Jets family, diversifying and  expanding the customer base, and pursing excellence for customer  support; Executive aviation: become established as one of the worlds main  manufacturers of executive jets, with the development of new prod- ucts, growing its market share, and pursuing excellence for custom- er support; Defense and security: be positioned as the firm anchor of Brazils de- fense and security system, with a diversified offering of products and  services and an expanded international presence, besides pursuing  excellence for customer support; People, organization and processes: build the perpetuity of the enterprise  through appreciation for its people, innovation, sustainable practices,  and operational efficiency, with the Embraer Entrepreneurial Excel- lence Program (P3E) to leverage these developments. By the end of the decade, Embraer will invest in new engines and the  perfection of the E-Jets. The Company postponed plans to develop a  new family of larger jets, given the adverse competitive scenario and  the unattractive return on investment.    coMMercIal aVIaTIon SCENARIO  Worldwide passenger air transportation grew 5.3%, in 2011,  according to estimates by the International Civil Aviation Organization  (ICAO), which confirms the recovery trend after the financial crisis.  Therefore, according to the International Air Transportation Association  (IATA), the worldwide air transportation industry should have profits of  approximately US$7 billion, in 2011. In light of this scenario, Embraer expects that the demand for air trans- portation will continue to grow an average of 5.2% per year until 2030.  This growth could mean a worldwide demand of approximately 7,200  commercial jets with a capacity up to 120 seats and a potential market  of more than US$300 billion. The market for jets with 30 to 60 seats has suffered the impact of in- creased fuel prices, competition, and reduced fares. Even at that, those  aircraft have been essential for feeding the hub airports in the U.S. and  Europe, as well as for developing regional aviation in Latin America,  Africa, the Community of Independent States (CIS), and China. In Africa, the ERJ 145 have made it possible for South African Airlink to  expand its route network to smaller cities. In the CIS, the same model,  used by Ukraines Dniproavia Airlines, allows opening new markets and  adjusting seat offerings to passenger demand. The ERJ 145 continue  playing an important role in developing regional aviation in China, where  the largest fleet of this model is found, outside of the U.S. and Europe. The jets in the 61- to 120-seat segment, of which Embraer is the market  leader with nearly a 45% share, continued to provide greater flexibility and  operating efficiency to airline companies. The E-Jets (EMBRAER 170/190  family) are recognized in this segment as a successful platform for airlines  with a variety of business models, worldwide.  pORTfOlIO   gri 2.2 Family Capacity Range (Kilometers and Nautical Miles) ERJ 145 37 – 50 seats 3,700 km (2,000 mn) EMBRAER 170 70 – 80 seats 3,900 km (2,100 mn) EMBRAER 175 78 – 88 seats 3,700 km (2,000 mn) EMBRAER 190 98 – 114 seats 4,500 km (2,400 mn) EMBRAER 195 108 – 122 seats 4,100 km (2,200 mn) 45 operational performance   Paulo Csar Silva  Executive Vice President,  Commercial Aviation Business Two landmarks reflected the success of the E-Jets in the  world commercial aviation market in 2011. Just seven  years after the first delivery of the model, in 2004, the  milestones of 1,000 firm orders and 800 deliveries of the  E-Jets were surpassed. Our customers increasingly focus  their efforts on optimizing their fleets. To support them, the 61- to 120-seat jets, which is the  market segment led by Embraer, with nearly a 45%  share, continued providing greater flexibility and  operational efficiency to the airline companies. And the  substitution  of ageing fleets and  the removal of excess  capacity, which are typical needs of North America and  Europe, have become more evident in other markets, in  recent years. With an attentive eye on these trends, we  adjusted our business strategy and are prepared to take  advantage of the opportunities. Commercial  Aviation 1,000 orders and 800 deliveries of E-jets: landmarks  surpassed in 2011 46 annual report embraer 2011   pERfORMANCE  In 2011, the success of the E-Jets in the world com- mercial aviation market was reflected by two important milestones:  sales went over 1,000 firm orders and 800 aircraft had been deliv- ered to the world market just seven years after the first delivery, in  2004. The 800th E-Jet, an EMBRAER 190, was delivered to Chinas  CDB Leasing Co., Ltd., and will be operated by China Southern Air- lines, the largest airline company in Asia and the fourth largest in  traffic volume. Leasing companies increasingly recognize the benefits of the E-Jets  and their widespread acceptance by the market, and they were re- sponsible for 64 orders of this aircraft, in 2011. Among the companies  are Air Lease Corp., CDB Leasing Co., Ltd., CIT Aerospace, BOC Avia- tion, and GECAS. The substitution of older fleets and the removal of excess capacity,  which are typical phenomena in North America and Europe, have  been more evident in other markets, in recent years. Airline compa- nies in Africa, Latin America, Asia, and the Middle East have been  discovering the potential for regional flights in their route networks,  by introducing smaller aircraft, thus increasing the efficiency of their  operations and expanding air services to communities or groups that  were without them. In 2011, most of the orders were from companies  located outside of Europe and North America. The 100th E-Jet went into service in Latin America and the Caribbean,  in 2011, shows the strength of aviation in this region, where Embraer  is the market leader with a 79% share of the segment of up to 120  seats. Some 150 Latin American cities are served by E-Jets, which  have carried more than 37 million passengers in the region. After a decade of presence in China, Embraer delivered the 100th  aircraft to that market, in 2011. The delivery of that EMBRAER 190  shows the strong development of the aviation industry in China and  the Companys leadership in that country, with a 70% share of the  market for aircraft up to 120 seats. The continued recover of the air transportation industry, in 2011, was  reflected by the announcement of new orders and by the conversion  of E-Jets options by customers: Alitalia (Italy), Air Astana (Kazakh- stan), Air Lease (United States), Airnorth (Australia), Azul (Brazil),  BOC Aviation (Singapore), China Development Bank, CIT (United  States), Fuji Dream Airlines (Japan), GECAS (United States), He- bei (China), Jetscape (United States), Kenya Airways (Kenya), KLM  (The Netherlands), Lufthansa (Germany), and TRIP (Brazil).  Six new customers began their operations with E-Jets: Air Astana  (Kazakhstan), China Southern Airlines and Hebei Airlines (China),  Oman Air (Oman), Peoples vienna Line (Austria), and RAK Airways  (United Arab Emirates). AIRCRAfT DElIvERIES Aircraft Model 2011 2010 2009 ERJ 145 2 7 8 EMBRAER 170 1 11 22 EMBRAER 175 10 8 11 EMBRAER 190 68 58 64 EMBRAER 195 24 17 20 Total 105 101 125 47 operational performance   fIRM ORDER bACklOg  On December 31, 2011, the E-Jets family achieved 1,051 firm orders for 60 operators in 40 countries, 695 options to  buy, and 802 jets delivered. The firm order backlog for commercial aviation came to US$7.7 billion, which is the equivalent to 249 aircraft. ORDER bACklOg Aircraft Model Firm Orders Options Deliveries Firm Order   Backlog ERJ 145 Family ERJ 135 108 - 108 - ERJ 140 74 - 74 - ERJ 145 708 - 708 - Total – ERJ 145 Family 890 - 890 - E-Jets EMBRAER 170 188 22 182 6 EMBRAER 175 189 290 143 46 EMBRAER 190 551 355 389 162 EMBRAER 195 123 28 88 35 Total – E-Jets 1,051 695 802 249 Total 1,941 695 1,692 249 1,941 firm orders and 1,692 aircraft  delivered to commercial aviation 48 annual report embraer 2011  eXecuTIVe aVIaTIon SCENARIO  In 2011, the deliveries for the executive aviation industry  came to approximately 700 aircraft, for a drop of 8% from 2010, when  763 executive jets were delivered. It is expected that the demand in 2012 will remain at the same level  as 2011, and a recovery of the market should begin only in 2013. With  this projected slow economic upturn, Embraer estimates that over the  next ten years there will be a market of US$205 billion, and a volume  of deliveries of more than 8,000 executive jets. The economic crisis that has held on since mid-2008 has hit the ex- ecutive aviation market with one of the most aggressive sales reduc- tions in its history. Furthermore, the recovery of new executive jet sales  has been jeopardized by the large offering of used jets at competitive  prices. Currently, there are some 700 executive jets up to ten years old  for sale, and they are being negotiated with average discounts of 30%  of the fair price of the aircraft in a balanced market. Given the difficulties that affected the worldwide executive aviation  market, mainly in the entry-level and light categories, Embraer record- ed a reduction of its share of the industrys volume of deliveries, from  19% in 2010 to around 14% in 2011. In terms of revenues, its market  share dropped from 7% to 6%, respectively. The emerging markets have reacted differently and have absorbed  more and more executive jets. The demand from those markets, al- though growing, is still small, in comparison with the North American  and European markets. In absolute numbers, the United States should  continue to be the largest market for executive aviation, or about 42%  of the revenues expected over the next ten years, followed by Europe,  the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), which should represent about  34%. Brazil will represent 3% e and China, 8%, of this market. pORTfOlIO  gri 2.2 Aircraft Model Capacity Range (Kilometers   and Nautical Miles) Category Phenom 100 6 – 8 occupants 2,182 km (1,178 nm) Entry-level Phenom 300 8 – 10 occupants 3,650 km (1,971 nm) Light Legacy 450 7 – 9 seats 4,260 km (2,300 nm) Midlight Legacy 500 8 – 12 seats 5,556 km (3,000 nm) Midsize Legacy 600 10 – 14 occupants 6,297 km (3,400 nm) Super Midsize Legacy 650 10 – 14 seats 7,223 km (3,900 nm) Large Lineage 1000 13 – 19 seats 8,334 km (4,500 nm) Ultra-large The Executive Aviation market  is expected to recover in 2013,  and already shows signs of an  increased demand in emerging  markets. For the next ten years,  Embraer estimates there will be a  market of US$205 billion, with a  delivery volume of more than 8,000  executive jets. 49 operational performance   Ernie Edwards  Executive Vice President,  Executive Aviation Business  The expansion of our international presence marked the year for executive aviation. In February 2011, we inaugurated a factory in Melbourne (Florida, U.S.) and, in December, we performed the maiden flight of the first Phenom 100 produced in the United States. We also reinforced our brand in China with new contracts – like the sale of 13 Legacy 650 jets during the biggest executive aviation industry trade show in the world – and naming actor Jackie Chan as ambassador for the Embraer Executive Jets brand. We  continued on the path of great achievements of the past ten  years in the executive aviation market, with more than 500  business jets in operation in some 40 countries, despite the  impact of the economic crisis that has hung on since mid-2008. Although jeopardized by the large offering of used models at competitive prices, the recovery of executive jet sales has progressed in emerging markets. Executive Aviation 10 years of presence in executive aviation, with more than 500 executive jets in  operation in about 40 countries 50 annual report embraer 2011  pERfORMANCE  In 2011, Embraer celebrated the 10th anniversary of en- tering the executive aviation market with outstanding achievements. In  February, the factory was opened in Melbourne (Florida, U.S.), and in  December the first Phenom 100 produced in the United States took its  maiden flight and the Executive Aviation Customer Center opened at the  same industrial site. Furthermore, the 200th Phenom 100 produced was  delivered to Swift Aviation, in Phoenix (Arizona, U.S.). At the end of the  year, more than 220 Phenom 100 aircraft were operating in 26 countries. The first unit of the Phenom 300 was delivered to Brazils shared- ownership customer, Prime Fraction Club. The aircraft was certified in  Australia and Mexico, and the version for eight passengers was also  approved, increasing its versatility and competitiveness. At the end  of 2011, there were over 50 Phenom 300 operating in 11 countries. In 2011, the large Legacy 650 jet obtained American and Chinese cer- tification and flew 6,743 km (3,641 nautical miles), from So Paulo to  Miami, in a record (for this aircraft) 8 hours and 48 minutes. Also, in  May, an important deal was closed with the Comlux Group, of Ka- zakhstan, for the sale of three of these aircraft, and four more options. In October, Chinas Minsheng Financial Leasing Co. signed a contract  for the purchase of 13 Legacy 650 jets, during NBAA, the biggest  executive aviation trade show in the world. During the same month,  Embraer announced the hiring of Hollywood star, Jackie Chan, as the  brand ambassador for Embraer Executive Jets. The super midsize Legacy 600 jet is going into its tenth year of pro- duction with broad market acceptance. In December 2011, there were  over 185 Legacy 600 jets operating in 36 countries. The new midlight Legacy 450 and midsize Legacy 500 jets were the  highlight in July 2011, with the joining of the first fuselage. The air- craft will be positioned between the Phenom 300 and the Legacy  600, thus consolidating the range of Embraer products for execu- tive aviation as one of the most complete, currently being offered. It  is estimated that US$750 million will be invested in developing the  two programs. The Legacy 500 should be certified in 2013, followed  Legacy 450. The ultra-large Lineage 1000 was certified in China and India, which  was an important milestone for it to be sold in those promising Asian  markets. At the end of 2011, Embraer had accumulated a firm order backlog of  US$4.4 billion for executive jets. AIRCRAfT DElIvERIES Aircraft Model 2011 2010 2009 Phenom 100 41 100 97 Phenom 300 42 26 1 Legacy 600/650 13 11 18 Lineage 1000 3 5 3 Embraer 170 Shuttle - 3 - Total 99 145 119 51 operational performance   DeFense anD securITy SCENARIO  In 2011, the operations of the defense and security area  began to be managed by a new business unit: Embraer Defense and  Security.  With its major customer being the Brazilian Air Force (FAB), Embraer  Defense and Security plays a strategic role in Brazils defense system  – it has supplied over 70% of the FABs fleet – and is beginning to  expand its involvement to other regions, beyond the 48 countries it  serves with its aircraft, services and defense systems. The Embraer Defense and Security business unit has integrated so- lutions that combine high technological content with operating effi- ciency at competitive acquisition and operating costs. In partnership  with its subsidiary and affiliate companies, it offers a broad range of  products, services and solutions in the defense, security and space  segments with a focus on protecting people, territory and assets, but  developing customized solutions for its customers. Its product por- tfolio includes aircraft and systems for different purposes: command,  control, communication, computation, intelligence, surveillance and  reconnaissance (C4ISR); training and combat; and transportation of  military and civilian authorities. In addition, it provides aircraft modernization services and customer  support. Through partnerships and acquisitions performed in 2011, it  began to be involved in such segments as Remotely Piloted Aircraft  (RPA), also known as Unmanned Aerial vehicles (UAv), radar, and  public security systems. Embraer Defense and Security will be strengthened in the coming  years, not only in meeting the needs of Brazil, but also in the area  of exports. This new corporate configuration opens a new range of  capacities to the Company. Besides products and systems for the  aerospace segment, the unit will also serve the promising security  area and will consolidate Embraers central position in the process of  strengthening Brazils defense and security industry. Also contributing this positive scenario are the recent measures  adopted by the government, such as instituting rules for purchasing  and hiring defense products and systems by the Brazilian govern- ment, while exonerating national companies that are considered to  be strategic for the defense sector.  kC-390  Currently under development, according to the programs  chronogram, is the KC-390 military cargo and aerial refueling aircraft,  which will open the way for Embraer into a new market segment.  The first flight of the prototype is expected for 2014 and the aircraft  should be certified by the end of the following year.  The aircraft has 60 promises of intent to purchase, with 28 to the  FAB, 12 to Colombia, six each to Chile, Portugal and Argentina, and  two to the Czech Republic. In 2011, national and international com- panies were selected and hired to supply the main systems and seg- ments of this new cargo plane.  52 annual report embraer 2011  Luiz C. Aguiar CEO, Embraer  Defences and Security Embraer Defense and Security has integrated solutions that combine high technological content and operational efficiency at competitive acquisition and operating costs. Our product portfolio  includes aircraft and systems for different purposes, as well as modernization services and  customer support. New acquisitions and partnerships expanded the range of our products, services and solutions for the defense, security and space segments. These include acquiring the control of Indstria Aeronutica de Portugal (OGMA) and an agreement with Telebras to form a company for developing Brazils satellite system. Defense and Security us$ billion 3.3  in firm order  backlog 53 operational performance   ACQuISITIONS AND pARTNERShIpS  gri 2.9 In line with this strategy of building capacities, Embraer  Defense and Security acquired 90% of the capital of  the radar division of OrbiSat da Amaznia S.A., for an  important step to increase the Companys participation in  the Brazilian Security System. Furthermore, Embraer signed an agreement with AEL  Sistemas, a subsidiary of Israels Elbit Systems Ltd.,  for the purpose of jointly assessing and exploring the  Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) market. As a result  of this agreement, Harpia Sistemas S.A. was formed,  with Embraer Defense and Security holding 51% of the  capital of Harpia and AEL holding 49%. Also a part of this partnership, and with the objective  of taking part in the process of transferring technology  to Brazil, 25% of the capital of AEL were acquired  by Embraer Defense and Security. In the mini-UAV  segment, a commercial agreement was signed with  Brazils Santos Lab. Continuing with the expansion of its portfolio, the  Company acquired 50% of the capital of Atech Negcios  em Tecnologias S.A. This partnership will increase the  capacity of the companies for developing products and  services in the area of command, control, computation,  communication and intelligence (C4I) systems. pORTfOlIO gri 2.2 Embraer Defense and Security Super Tucano: basic and advanced training, transition to fighters and light  attack. AMX: air-to-ground attack. EMB 145 AEW&C: airborne early warning and control. EMB 145 Multi Intel: remote sensing, air-ground surveillance, and  electronic intelligence. EMB 145 MP: maritime patrol. KC-390: tactical military transport and aerial refueling. Transportation of Authorities:  ERJ 145 family, E-Jets, Phenom, Legacy, and Lineage Unmanned Aerial vehicles (UAv) Simulators Ground Radar Systems and Solutions: Command and Control Integrated System (C4I) Training and Operation Support System (TOSS) Mission Systems Air traffic control Police Intelligence System Services: Modernization of Avionics Systems Aircraft Modernization Aircraft Maintenance and Repair Services Remote Sensing Logistical Services Training and Enabling In the portfolio of Embraer Defense  and Security, the highlight is the  Super Tucano, which closed the  year with 182 aircraft contracted  and 156 delivered. To support  the customers of this model, the  Company developed support  systems for training and operations. 54 annual report embraer 2011  5 agreements expanded  business capacity OGMA   In January 2012, in order to reinforce the strategic  partnership between Brazil and the European Union,  Embraer Defense and Security signed an agreement with the  European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company (EADS)  to acquire full control of Airholding, SGPS S.A.  Airholding is a consortium formed in 2005 by Embraer and  EADS for the specific purpose of hold 65% of the shares in  Indstria Aeronutica de Portugal (OGMA). The other 35%  are under the control of the Portuguese government, via the  Empresa Portuguesa de Defesa (EMPORDEF). OGMA provides maintenance and repair services for  military and civilian aircraft, engines and components,  besides manufacturing and assembling air frames. In 2011,  OGMA earned US$196 million and closed out the year with  1,486 employees TELEbrAS  Also in 2011, and for the purpose of  meeting the needs of the Federal government regarding  satellite development in Brazil (including the  National Broadband Program and strategic defense  and government communications), Embraer and  Telecomunicaes Brasileiras S.A. (Telebras) signed  a memorandum of intent with an eye to forming a  company in which Embraer will hold a 51% share and  Telebrs with 49%. 55 operational performance   pERfORMANCE  2011 was very significant for the entire line of defense  and security products, with net revenues of US$852 million. The ad- vanced training and light attack Super Tucano continued to be one of  the highlights. During the year, eight aircraft were delivered: two to  Brazil, three to Ecuador, and three to an undisclosed customer. Further- more, a contract went into effect for supplying eight airplanes to In- donesia, which will be the Companys entry to the Asia-Pacific region.  Also in 2011, a contract was signed to supply a new customer with two  Super Tucanos, in 2012. With these new contracts, the Super Tucano  closed out the year with 182 aircraft ordered and 156 delivered. At the end of the year, the United States Air Force (USAF) an- nounced that it had selected the Super Tucano for its Light Air Sup- port (LAS) program, because it was the best product available, with  proven performance in action and capable of meeting its demands  with the greatest efficiency. After being temporarily suspended by a  court injunction filed by a competitor that was disqualified from the  bidding contest by the USAF, the contract ended up being canceled.  Embraer remains firm in its purpose of providing the best solution for  the market and will continue its unceasing pursuit of diversifying its  customer base. In order to support the Super Tucano customers, Training and Op- eration Support Systems (TOSS) were developed, which can include  flight simulators, Computer Based Training (CBT), Mission Planning  Stations (MPS), and Mission Debriefing Stations (MDS). In 2011, The  Ecuadorean Air Force received its flight simulator. As for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) systems,  the highlight goes to the ongoing progress of the AEW India program,  through the contract with the Defence Research and Development  Organization of India, to supply three EMB 145 AEW&C aircraft. The  maiden flight of the first aircraft took place in 2011 and concluded an  important phase of this program, and initiated the flight test cam- paign. The first delivery is expected for the first half of 2012. In the modernization area, three programs are currently underway for  the Brazilian Armed Forces. In the A-1M program, Embraer is respon- sible for refurbishing and modernizing 43 subsonic AMX fighters,  and deliveries will begin in 2013. The second program, with the FABs F-5M jet, covers 46 F-5 fight- ers. In 2011, four modernized units were delivered, with three left for  the beginning of 2012. At the beginning of 2011, a new contract was  signed for modernizing an additional 11 F-5 fighters, besides furnish- ing one more flight simulator for this aircraft. First deliveries of this  second group of modernized fighters is expected for 2013. The third program refers to the modernization of 12 AF-1 aircraft for  the Brazilian Navy, two of which are already at Embraer and begin- ning to detail the modification and modernization work to be done. fIRM ORDERS  At the end of 2011, Embraer Defense and Security had  accumulated US$3.3 billion in its firm order backlog.   56 annual report embraer 2011  45% growth in aircraft  deliveries for Agricultural Aviation in 2011 57 operational performance   aGrIculTural aVIaTIon SCENARIO  Embraer leads the agricultural aviation market in Brazil with  its Ipanema aircraft that holds a 75% share. The model has been pro- duced for 40 years at the Embraer plant in Botucatu, So Paulo, and is  used to spray agricultural pesticides, fight fires, seed rivers, and com- bat pests and larvae, among other applications. The airplane can be  equipped with a series of optional features, such as a solids spreader  and a differential global positioning system (DGPS). The Ipanema is the first aircraft produced in series in the world. Etha- nol is a more sustainable option, because of the lower environmental  impact, lower operating and maintenance costs, and better overall per- formance of the aircraft. The ethanol version began to be produced in  2005 and represents 20% of the fleet in operation. gri 2.2 SAlES AND DElIvERIES  In 2011, there were 58 Ipanema aircraft  sold in Brazil and the Mercosur, which represented a 45% in- crease over the previous year and reflects an upturn in agri- business. In January 2012, the model achieved the milestone of  1,200 planes delivered.  serVIces anD suPPorT AERONAuTICAl SERvICES  gri 2.2  The number of Embraer aircraft  in operation is constantly growing, throughout the world, and the  Company maintains a worldwide service network to support its cus- tomers. Each of the three business segments – commercial aviation,  executive aviation, and defense and security – offers services that  include after-sale support, training, replacement parts sales, and air- craft and component maintenance services. In 2011, revenues from  aeronautical services came to R$1,101 million and represented 11% of  Embraers total revenues. Besides such specialized companies as Embraer Aircraft Mainte- nance Services (EAMS, in the U.S.) and OGMA – Indstria Aeronu- tica de Portugal, Embraer has its own shops and parts inventories in  the U.S., France, China, Singapore, and Brazil. embraer ServiCe CenterS  Embraers worldwide network currently  includes some 60 company-owned and authorized service centers.  The network is complemented by a 24-hour Contact Center at the  Companys headquarters, in So Jos dos Campos, to assist custom- ers anywhere in the world. Field Support  Embraer has a structure of teams with proven efficiency  in providing customers with solutions for technical and operational  problems, such as flight operations, maintenance and replacement  parts. These teams each have an account manager, a replacement  parts representative, and specialized technicians. Embraer offers   24-hour field support, 365 days a year, to its customers and provides  them with after-sale services. teCHniCal Support  A service team formed by qualified technicians  and engineers offers expert 24-hour attention at the headquarters in  So Jos dos Campos, answering customer questions and handling  problems, besides providing customized reports analyzing reliability.  2009 2010 2011 40 55 AIRCRAfT DElIvERIES 34 Ipanemas delivered in 2009 Ipanemas delivered in 2010 Ipanemas delivered in 2011 58 annual report embraer 2011  This includes measures for real-time preventive monitoring of the  fleet. Remote support can be expanded by the assistance of engi- neering at the customers location. maintenanCe engineering  Customized maintenance plans help  customers gain better performance at reduced costs and with great- er reliability. Embraers professionals are also prepared to modify the  aircraft according to customer needs. These modifications, which are  performed within the highest standards of quality, range from esthet- ics to cabin configuration and the substitution of basic systems.  operational Support  Embraer offers a complete set of technical  documents especially prepared for the use of pilots, flight attendants,  forwarders, and flight engineers that are aligned with the customers  needs. Among a number of other conveniences, airline companies  also have special courses for pilots, a pilot allocation option, and  contracts for continuous consulting regarding flight engineering. material Support  The Company offers effective systems for sup- plying materials and special replacement parts and programs needed  for the operations of its customers, according to flight and mainte- nance chronograms. training  In order to provide support and qualify pilots, mechanics,  technicians and flight attendants for operating its aircraft, Embraer  makes several training programs available to its customers at a num- ber of sites around the world. e-SolutionS  via solutions made available on the Internet, Embraer  offers its customers the convenience and savings of 24-hour access  to support resources that include: technical publications, perfor- mance software, replacement parts, daily real-time information re- garding fleet conditions, and an online manual for identifying defects,  among other services. SAlES fINANCINg  With the effects of the economic crisis on the  availability and cost of financing aircraft, which worsened in the sec- ond half of 2011, the export credit agencies maintain support for their  national manufacturers. Embraers customers, with the Companys  support, were able to structure all of their acquisitions, by both the  market (63%) and the Brazilian export financing system (37%).  59 operational performance   The diversification of the customer base of the E-Jets and its versatile  application to different business models have contributed to a positive  perception of the asset as a guarantee and, consequently, the residual  values have performed excellently. The successful restructuring of fi- nancing for Embraer customers is proof of the excellent evaluation of  the E-Jets by the financial community. The EMBRAER 170/190 family has been predominantly financed by  European financial institutions and leasing companies. The European  commercial banks face severe liquidity restrictions and should reduce  the allocation of funds to finance aircraft over the coming years. On  the other hand, the leasing companies and the capital market should  increase their participation in financing. In 2011, Embraer signed sale contracts directly with leasing companies  in the United States and Asia. Those agreements will contribute strong  support to the Companys customers, worldwide, thus expanding the  offer of operational leasing solutions. It is expected that the leasing  structures will have a larger share in the coming years, compensating  the reduction in the amounts to be allocated to the sector by the com- mercial banks. Financing via the capital market will also gain a new thrust, as the new  regulations on capital and the banking system, as well as the global  adoption of the Cape Town treaty, tend to increase their efficiency,  compared to the other structures. The export credit agencies will continue their important involvement,  in 2012, in meeting total financing needs, which are estimated to be  US$95 billion for commercial aviation. Official support of the Brazilian  export financing system has increased over the past few years, due to  the financial crisis, and represented about 37% of all deliveries in 2011,  and this should continue at similar levels during 2012. We would point  out that this source of funding represents only 18% of all accumulated  E-Jet deliveries since 2004.  ASSET MANAgEMENT gri 2.2  In order to give better support to sales  and to reduce some of the financial risks related to aircraft sales,   Embraer created the ECC Leasing Co. Ltd. subsidiary, based in Dublin,  Ireland, in 2002. The mission of ECC Leasing is to manage and sell the aircraft portfo- lio that, due to contractual obligations, could be acquired by Embraer  in trade-in or by-back transactions. The company also provides resale  services to third parties connected with sales campaigns. 60 annual report embraer 2011  61 operational performance   ECC Leasing has managed 93 aircraft made by Embraer, so far, 43 of  which were resold, 29 are under operational leases, 14 are available  for relocation in the market, and seven are being used by Embraer to  conclude tests and certifications, mainly for E-Jets and the Legacy 650. The fleet of 25 Citation Ultra aircraft, acquired by ECC Leasing from  NetJets, Inc., by trade-in, at the end of 2010, was sold during the sec- ond half of 2011. The fundamental condition for trade-in operations is the acquisition  of new aircraft by customers. Using the trade-in option is linked to the  customers fulfilling the contractual clauses. Those clauses state that  the price of the good that is offered as payment may be applied to  the purchase price of a new, more up-to-date model produced by the  Company. The trade-in price is based on a percentage of the original  purchase price of the aircraft, and Embraer monitors all of the trade-in  commitments, in order to prepare for adverse situations. TechnoloGIcal anD oPeraTIonal ManaGeMenT   teCHnology and knowledge   In 2011, Embraer held the 100th Comu- nidade de Prtica (Community of Practice), consolidating the concept  and the importance of knowledge management practices in the various  areas of the Company. It also held the 2nd edition of the Embraer Semi- nar on Technology and Innovation (ESTI), where several presentations  were made with high technological content, produced by employees  and focusing on the sustainability of products and processes. Further- more, and even was held, which focused on gathering and disseminat- ing the experiences of experts with a broad spectrum of technologies teCHnology development  gri pr1  The capacity to generate tech- nologically innovative solutions is an indispensable competence for  staying competitive in the aeronautics industry. Keeping in mind the  importance of new technologies for its future, Embraer, through its  technological development program, investigates and develops solu- tions that create internal competencies that are crucial for its business. The strategy of the technological development program is based  on analyzing and monitoring the worldwide technological scenario.   Embraer has been continuing its efforts and investments in the ca- pacity to apply advanced technologies in the development of increas- ingly modern, safe and efficient aircraft. In 2011, several advances were made in this direction, with the con- clusion of the Silent Aircraft initiatives, with a focus on solutions  for reducing noise levels in the aircraft, and Assembly Automation,  where a flexible and low-cost automation system for assembling the  aircrafts structure was developed and tested. Furthermore, Embraer was a member of two consortia: Portugals  Lighter, Integrated, Friendly and Eco-efficient (L.I.F.E.) Aircraft Cabin,  with its objective of creating competencies for conceiving, developing,  and industrializing technical and functional solutions that are more  eco-efficient, lighter, integrated, comfortable, and have an innovative  design; and Europes Sustainable Way for Alternative Fuels and Energy  for Aviation (SWAFEA), in order to study the best technical and sus- tainable alternatives for the use of renewable fuels in aviation. Another important landmark of the program is associated with the  evaluation of new solutions for aviations energy matrix, specifically  a test flight with aviation biokerosene developed by UOP Honeywell.  Produced basically from camelina (bioQAv), this is the first renew- able kerosene in the world to be certified for commercial aviation. 62 annual report embraer 2011  knowledge network  gri pr1  Embraers technological development  strategy is structured as a program that is able to manage and carry  out multidisciplinary projects and integrate a number of institutions,  such as universities, research institutes, fomenting institutions and  other companies that operate as a network of development partners.  Currently, more than 50 research and development (R&D) institutes  work together, involving more than 250 researchers from the scien- tific community. In 2011, important steps were taken in the plan for expanding and  integrating national and international research networks. The first  Brazilian laboratory for researching lightweight structures – in the  Technological Park of So Jos dos Campos, So Paulo – began op- erating in a contact made possible by a partnership that involves the  Research Assistance Foundation of the State of So Paulo (Fundao  de Amparo  Pesquisa do Estado de So Paulo – FAPESP), the Insti- tute of Technological Research (Instituto de Pesquisas Tecnolgicas  – IPT), the Department of Development of the State of So Paulo  (Secretaria do Desenvolvimento do Estado de So Paulo), the Na- tional Economic and Social Development Bank (Banco Nacional de  Desenvolvimento Econmico e Social – BNDES), and Embraer. FAPESP, Boeing, and Embraer also signed a letter of intent to collabo- rate in the research and development of biofuels for commercial avia- tion. Embraer began taking part in the Aerospace vehicle Systems  Institute (AvSI), which deals with issues that affect the aerospace  community, via cooperative research and international collaboration  on the part of industry, governments and universities. In addition,  Embraers participation was approved in Framework Programme 7 of  the European Community. Keeping in mind the importance of R&D activities for national devel- opment, and the strategic role of the aeronautics industry for tech- nological innovation, Embraer is actively involved in discussions with  the main corporate leaders and the government, in order to strength- en public fomenting policies for the National Innovation System. In  this way, the Company seeks to contribute to building an environ- ment that favors technological innovation in companies and intensi- fies research into the Nations emerging technologies. With this objective in mind, in August 2011, the Federal government  launched the Greater Brazil Program (Programa Brasil Maior). This  program sees the aeronautics and space industry as one of the di- mensions for expanding the Nations technological competencies.  Therefore, the program strengthens the continuity of Embraers ef- forts toward technological innovation, for the purpose of being more  competitive. intelleCtual property  A Embraers intellectual property manage- ment policy recognizes the need to protect the rights and results of  intellectual creation arising from investments in research and devel- opment, in the form of inventions, industrial design, brands, process- es, systems, software, or products. An assessment of the importance and convenience of obtaining pro- tection for intellectual property of innovations in products, technolo- gies or processes developed by Embraer is made by an Intellectual  Property Management Committee composed of permanent represen- tatives of the Technology, Engineering, and Legal vice presidencies. pARTNERShIp   in R&D favors innovation and the development of technologies 63 operational performance   In order to evolve with the best practices for managing intellectual  property, the Company joined the Brazilian Association of Intellectual  Property (Associao Brasileira da Propriedade Intelectual – ABPI), in  2011, which brings together companies, offices of industrial property  agents, law firms, and experts from Brazil and other countries. Embraer also joined the Intellectual Property Program of the National  Confederation of Industries (Programa de Propriedade Intelectual da  Confederao Nacional das Indstrias – CNI), in which all national enti- ties of the Industrial System (CNI, SESI, SENAI, and IEL) are involved.  The program is the largest enterprise for disseminating and training  for the strategic use of intellectual property in Latin America. Since the implementation of its policy for managing intellectual prop- erty, in 2007, Embraer has had a substantial increase in the number  of patents requested. In 2011, 23 requests for patents were filed and  17 were granted for industrial drawings and inventions. INDuSTRIAl OpERATIONS  Industrial operations contributed signifi- cantly to Embraers results, with a number of products focused on  increasing productivity and improving manufacturing quality. These  gains were achieved by disseminating the lean manufacturing con- cepts promoted by the Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program  (P3E), mainly by carrying out Kaizen and 3P (Production Preparation  Process) projects. Another P3E highlight in industrial operations was the evolution of  several continuous improvement cells to the silver certification level,  while others achieved the cell group stage, thus strengthening the in- tegration between the different departments and perfecting the value  flow processes. In line with the strategy of the P3E Program, Embraer advanced with  its industrial automation project, in 2011. Other robots were added  to the already existing ones, to manufacture fuselage segments and  wings and to paint the aircraft – the painting robot is the first to be  used for this purpose in the aeronautics industry. Several robots were  also acquired and will begin operating next year to paint parts, join  fuselage sections, and manufacture parts from composite materials  in Brazil. For the new factories in Portugal, robots were acquired to  manufacture wings and stabilizers. . Founded on four pillars, the  Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence  Program buttresses the Companys  competitiveness and expands its  capacity to respond to the challenges  and opportunities of the market.  The initiative pursues continuous  and gradual improvement, the   elimination waste, and automation. EMbRAER ENTREpRENEuRIAl ExCEllENCE pROgRAM (p3E)   The results  obtained by the Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program (P3E)  over the past four years have sustained the Companys competitive- ness and expanded its capacity for responding to the challenges of  the aerospace market, such as the reduction in demand, higher costs,  and keen competition. The program was launched in 2007 and has shown an evolution in  the satisfaction of people, the preparation of leaders, operational effi- ciency, and corporate culture. Based on a Japanese model, the P3E is  a system that seeks to raise Embraers management, processes and  products to the level of excellence, by improving the capacity of all  employees and leaders. The program is founded upon four pillars:  The development of Embraers organizational culture;  The development of people;  The constant formation of leaders and their management skills;  The pursuit of excellence and efficiency in all of the Companys processes. The program uses the Kaizen concept of continuous and gradual  pursuit of improvement of the Company and personal life, and the  Lean philosophy, inspired by the Lean Toyota management system of  eliminating waste, just-in-time delivery, and automation. Therefore,  the P3E gives incentive to a culture where employees express them- selves regarding solutions and innovations for the product, operating  process, and management. 64 annual report embraer 2011  As a fundamental part of the program, the Companys leadership  goes through a training process, which is divided into three stages:  Program for new leaders;  Perfecting command skills;   Formation of new entrepreneurs, with the objective of ensuring the  perpetuity of the business. Leaders should always be aligned with the  P3E values, in order to inspire their staff and, thus, reduce waste and  increase Embraers competitiveness. ContinuouS improvement Cell groupS  P3E was developed by  forming continuous improvement cells, based on the value flow  of the Company. The cells advance through the steps of the pro- gram via a certification process based on definite criteria, which  begins with basic qualifications and, successively, goes through  the bronze, silver and gold levels, according to performance. The  fundamentals of excellence of the National Foundation for Quality  (Fundao Nacional da Qualidade) were included in the criteria for  evolving the P3E cell groups. By 2011, of the 437 existing cell groups, 416 were qualified accord- ing to the expectations of internal and external customers, the rou- tine for applying improvement tools, and the definition of goals of  excellence. Of these cell groups, 373 (85%) achieved the bronze  level, because they obtained significant improvements in their pro- cesses, and 71 cell groups (16%) received silver certification, for  meeting high performance goals. In 2011, the cell groups were aligned and, consequently, their pro- cesses were joined with value flows and clearly defined products,  indicators and targets that ensure excellent results. The cycle for practicing values, which was based on individual ac- tions for collective movements, recognized 54 cell groups as out- standing in practicing Embraers values, in 2011. 65 operational performance   OCCupATIONAl hEAlTh AND SAfETy  gri la7  Our people are what  make us fly is the first of the six values that guide Embraers policies  and engagement. Consequently, health, well-being and occupational  safety are the basic assumptions of all of the activities carried out by  the Company.  Embraer holds OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety As- sessment Services) certification, managed by the Integrated Man- agement System for the Environment, Occupational Health and Safe- ty, and Quality (SIG-MASSQ), which monitors the health and safety  actions at all of the Companys units. This system, which integrates  the Company, employees, third-parties, and customers, is evaluated,  annually, and certified by ABS Quality Evaluations. The strategy of SIG-MASSQ is based on prior recognition of risks  and on establishing objectives and goals that are strengthened by  actions such as those set forth in the Occupational Health and Safety  Excellence Plan. The main goal of this Plan is to reduce job-related  accidents by 70% and the rate of severity by 50%, by December  2012, based on the figures for 2009. The Plan works on four fronts:  preventive action, process changes, educational actions, and correc- tive actions. In 2011, compared to 2009, there was a reduction of 52% in the num- ber of job-related accidents requiring a leave of absence and 70%  not requiring a leave, at the Faria Lima unit, alone, which has 57% of  all employees. These results reflect preventive, corrective and educa- tional actions, as well as a few changes in processes. Despite all of the initiatives and improved indicators, the Company  recorded a fatal accident in 2011, at the Faria Lima plant, in So Jos  dos Campos. By the time this report was concluded, the cause of  the accident was still being investigated by the Regional Office of the  Ministry of Labor. After the occurrence, the Company took preventive  measures at all of its units, to eliminate the possibility of a repeated  occurrence. Support programS  Based on the Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence  Program (P3E), all of the areas of the Company have goals for the con- tinuous improvement of the production processes and criteria for eli- gibility connected with the subject of occupational health and safety. 66 annual report embraer 2011  Other programs also contribute to the goal of reducing job-related  accidents, such as the Behavioral Program, which encourages the in- volvement of employees in the subject of safe behavior. Embraers Industrial Ergonomics Program works to improve the re- lationship between employees and their jobs, in order to prevent,  minimize or eliminate health hazards, providing comfort and safety by  adapting the work situation to the characteristics of the workers, while  considering their needs, skills and limitations.  Supply ChAIN MANAgEMENT  Aeronautical materials are the main  cost of an aircraft and, consequently, have a heavy impact on the  Companys cash flow. In 2011, Embraer continued its projects for  protecting its cash, generating margins, supplier relations and com- munications, optimizing work processes, training people to manage  supplies, and reducing inventories of purchased materials.  The project for reducing inventory levels includes changing the poli- cies for planning the purchase of materials (lot and security invento- ry), eliminating excess inventories, reducing obsolete materials, and  actions for improving the predictability of cash disbursements. This  project integrates the rules and procedures practiced by all of the ar- eas involved in the supply chain, like freight, contracts, currency con- version, reception of materials, products, and payment conditions. The selection of Embraers suppliers is influenced by such technical  factors as reliability, cost, capacity, availability and delivery deadlines,  quality, purchase convenience, assistance, and production capacity.  About 5% of the budgets for the purchasing processes of the opera- tional units are handled with local suppliers.  gri ec6 Quarterly executive meetings are held to follow up on action plans  with the main suppliers of aeronautical materials. Indicators of in- dustrial performance, customer satisfaction, and competitiveness of  suppliers are followed on a monthly basis.  gri pr5 2011 2011 2010 2010 2009 2009 31 47 100 jOb-RElATED ACCIDENTS WIThOuT lEAvE Of AbSENCE jOb-RElATED ACCIDENTS WITh lEAvE Of AbSENCE Occurrences in 2011 Occurrences in 2010 Occurrences in 2009 48 79 100 Occurrences in 2011 Occurrences in 2010 Occurrences in 2009 67 operational performance   For the purpose of improving relationships and communication, an Em- braer Suppliers Conference (ESC) and Supply Chain Alignment (SCA)  are held annually to advise suppliers of Embraers expectations and to  present the current and future scenarios of the commercial aviation,  executive jets, and defense and security markets. Production plans, ac- tion plans, and projects for improving the supply chain and product  quality are also presented. Embraer regularly evaluates key and/or crucial suppliers, in order to  identify and mitigate potential risks to the supply chain, such as financ- es, the suppliers business, product quality, engineering, manufactur- ing, after-sales, and the environment. In 2011, the Brazilian Air Force (FAB) and Embraer held a KC-390  Workshop, in order to stimulate the participation and preparation of  Brazilian companies as suppliers of parts, components, systems, and  services for this military transport aircraft that is being developed by  Embraer. The nationalization index of the aircraft is estimated at be- tween 60% and 80%, if the engines are not taken into consideration,  which represent about one-third of the total cost of the aircraft and for  which there is no national product. Besides stimulating the capacity of the national supply chain, the work- shop also sought to give incentive to companies to pursue partnerships  with foreign suppliers, which have already been hired by Embraer De- fense and Security for the program of the new airplane.  pRODuCT RESpONSIbIlITy AND SAfETy  gri pr1 | pr2 | pr3 In its com- mitment to entrepreneurial excellence, as expressed in the P3E  program, the Company adopts the highest production standards  and seeks to continuously perfect its people and processes, which  is one of the pillars of responsibility for a product that involves high  technology and security measures, like an airplane. Besides training its employees, the Company and its training partners  offer all customers who operate aircraft a broad range of technical  training courses. The Companys responsibility is also reflected in design, manufactur- ing and air navigability certifications obtained by its aircraft in Brazil  and abroad. Certification is a legal and mandatory process for civil  aviation, by which Embraer shows that the product complies with the  safety requirements set by the certifying agency. 2011 2010 2009 1,4 3,1 2,5 SubjECTS INCluDED IN ThE MONITORINg Of  ThE pRODuCT SAfETy COMMITTEE Average per airplane type monitored in  2011 Average per airplane type monitored in  2010 Average per airplane type monitored in  2009 Embraers responsibility is taken  broadly and covers not only the  products that are sold, but also training customers to operate  the aircraft. Furthermore, the  Company is rigorously involved in  the certification and approval of  new products and modifications. 68 annual report embraer 2011  69 operational performance   Embraers flight safety policy provides a proactive approach to the  entire life cycle of the product, so as to ensure that safety norms  and standards meet, as well as exceed, the minimum requirements  of aviation certification agencies. New products and modifications made in designs that have already  been certified are only released to operators after the formal pro- cess of demonstrating the safety requirements, and after approval  has been issued by the civil aviation agency. The process for ensuring the integrity of Embraers products contin- ues to be the same, after the aircraft goes into service or after the  modifications have been implemented, with the fleet duly followed- up on by both Embraer and the responsible authorities. The Company also makes available technical operating and mainte- nance manuals for the aircraft, with detailed information regarding  the safe and efficient use of all of its products and services, in com- pliance with applicable regulatory demands, so as to minimize the  environmental and social impacts arising from their use. CertiFiCationS   gri pr1  All of the aircraft developed by Embraer for  civilian use are certified by Brazils National Civil Aviation Agency  (Agncia Nacional de Aviao Civil do Brasil – ANAC), by the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), and by the European Aviation  Safety Agency (EASA) of the European Union, as well as other agen- cies, depending on where the aircraft will be registered and operated. The safety performance of the products is continuously monitored  for the customers. Any eventual risks identified are immediately as- sessed by Embraers Product Safety Committee, and a complete risk  management process is established, in order to minimize exposure,  according to the highest industry standards. On the average, 2.4 issues per type of aircraft per year are included in  the monitoring of this committee, even with the launch of new mod- els and the continuous growth of the number of airplanes in opera- tion over the past five years (see graphic on page 68). 3rd largest manufacturer of commercial  jets in the world and fifth largest  Brazilian exporter 70 annual report embraer 2011  INTANgIblE ASSETS Assets Components Means of Evaluation Embraer Brand Third largest manufacturer of commercial jets in  the world Fifth largest Brazilian exporter 42 years in operation Total sales Global customer base Portfolio of important and world-renowned partners Investment grade by Moodys and Standard & Poors People Knowledge and skills related to  strategic competencies High productivity, motivation and  commitment rates Performance of the Company Performance and Process Management System (P3E) Awards and recognition for people management Intellectual Property Knowledge management process Legal protection for intellection  property of innovations Number or value of patents In the case of an accident or serious incident involving one of its prod- ucts, Embraer Flight Safety takes part in the investigations and gives  support to the authorities in charge, always in line with the standards  of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). oCCurrenCeS  In 2011, there were three non-injury accidents with  Embraer aircraft. In May, a Phenom 100 ran off the runway during  landing, in the U.S. In September, an EMBRAER 190 went off the  runway when landing in Ecuador. In Gabon, in October, an EMB-120  Braslia turboprop also went off the end of the runway while landing,  under unfavorable weather conditions. In all three cases, Embraer sent representatives to accompany the  investigations of the causes of accidents. Although the investigations  have not been concluded, no contributing factor has been found, re- lated to the product. INTANgIblE ASSETS  The Company considers its main intangible as- sets to be the Embraer brand, its people, the intellectual property of  its innovations, and its infrastructure. Its penetration of and signifi- cant participation in different markets and regions show the global  acceptance of the brand, associated with highly reliable, innovative  and sustainable products, linked to cutting-edge technology. 71 operational performance   Having a global operation has become a necessary strategy for a company  that wants to achieve sustainable development. Global operations also  help promote political, economic and cultural exchange between countries.  Since Embraer entered the Chinese market in 2000, as of December 31,  2011, it has delivered over 100 commercial jets, accounting for over 76%  of Chinas regional aviation market. These aircraft are helping airlines build  networks, explore new markets, optimize fleet management, and train pilots  to address the crew shortage problem. This not only facilitates the strategic  market development of the airlines, but also provides convenient air service  for the public and stimulates  the development of regional economies and  the aviation industry as well. The establishment of HEAI has provided job  opportunities for around 230 people. As a direct result of the production  and delivery of over 100 Embraer jets, there have also been jobs created by  the airlines, along with employment by the suppliers, derivative industries  and local tourism industries due to the more convenient air transportation  services.  guO DIANMAN, pRESIDENT Of AvIC hARbIN AIRCRAfT  INDuSTRy gROup CO., lTD. (AvIC hAIg), ChINA. The global nature of Embraers business brings with it many advantages.  The company is internationally recognized for its excellence, and our  global exposure allows us the opportunity to tap into growth markets  while mitigating risks arising from potential down-cycles in other  markets. Furthermore, with operations all around the world, Embraer is a  multicultural company with a rich and diverse professional environment.  Thanks to this international presence, I had the chance to be transferred  from our Paris office to our Singapore office where I am now part of a  team of 70 people, representing over ten different nationalities.  MARINE  bENOIT, REgIONAl SAlES DIRECTOR, COMMERCIAl AvIATION, EMbRAER  ASIA-pACIfIC. Diversity, stability and opportunity; these are the advantages of working  at a company with global participation. Diversity in the sense that many  countries, cultures and experiences are better represented in a global  company. We all have a lot to learn from each other, and when we work  together, we become stronger. Stability because being present in different  markets facilitates the sales process and provides our customers with  convenience. Last, but not least, working in a global company provides us  with opportunities of personal and professional growth. Embraer, in parallel  to Brazils good performance, has managed to position itself globally in a  positive manner. All these attributes, added to many others, contribute to  increase our market share, our sales numbers and consequently, help in  building a sustainable future for Embraer employees worldwide.  MARk  A. MIllER, OpERATIONS MANAgER Of EMbRAER ExECuTIvE jETS IN  MElbOuRNE, flORIDA (uSA).  A 5% growth in net revenues and strong operational performance highlighted Embraers economic-financial results in 2011. n 2011, Embraer achieved, and even surpassed, the annual revenue estimates and oper- ating and EBITDA margins released to the market, in its recurring operations. econoMIc-FInancIal PerForMance  NET REvENuES AND gROSS MARgIN  gri ec1  Net income for the year was R$9,858.1 million, or  5% more than the previous year. Embraer believes that the current gross margin level is sustainable for the coming years, pre- suming a similar product mix and revenues. Economic-Financial  Performance and  Capital Market I 74 annual report embraer 2011  SuMMARy Of fINANCIAl pERfORMANCE R$ million* 2011 2010 2009 Net revenues 9,858.1 9,380.6 10,871.3 cost of Products Sold (7,638.8) (7,582.6) (8,759.5) Gross Income 2,219.3 1,798.0 2,111.8 Gross margin 22.5% 19.2% 19.4% Operating expenses (1,697.5) (1,112.4) (1,345.1) Operating Income After Interest and taxes 521.8 685.6 766.7 Operating margin 5.3% 7.3% 7.1% depreciation and Amortization 401.2 383.6 452.1 Adjusted eBItdA(1) 923.0 1,069.2 1,218.8 Adjusted eBItdA margin 9.4% 11.4% 11.2% Net Income Attributed to embraer 156.3 573.6 912.1 Net margin 1.6% 6.1% 8.4% Profit per Share 0.22 0.79 1.26 Number of Shares(2) 723,667 723,665 723,665 * Except Profit per Share and Number of Shares. (1) Adjusted EBITDA, according to CVM Bulletin No. 1/2005, is net income plus net financial revenues (expenses), income tax and social contribution, depreciation and  amortization, non-operating revenues (expenses), minority shares, and pick-up equity. (2) Does not include 16.8 million shares kept in the treasury. 75 economic-financial performance and capital market  During the year, Embraers exports totaled US$4,209.2 million, making  the Company Brazils fifth largest exporter, contributing 1.64% to the  Brazilian balance of trade. In 2011, there were 105 aircraft delivered to the commercial aviation  market, 103 of which were E-Jets and two were ERJ 145; 99 jets were de- livered to the executive aviation market, including 13 Legacy 600/650,  three Lineage 1000, 42 Phenom 300, and 41 Phenom 100. Besides these, there were delivered to the defense and security market  four F-5 fighter jets modernized by the F-5M program of the Brazilian  Air Force (FAB), and eight Super Tucanos, two of which to Brazil, three  to Ecuador, and three to an undisclosed customer. AIRCRAfT DElIvERIES by SEgMENT 2011 2010 2009 Commercial Aviation 105 100 122 ERJ 145 2 6 7 EMBRAER 170 1 9 (2) 22 EMBRAER 175 10 8 11 EMBRAER 190 68 58 62 EMBRAER 195 24 17 20 Executive Aviation 99 144 115 Phenom 100 41 100 93 Phenom 300 42 26 1 Legacy 600/650 13 10 18 Lineage 1000 3 5 3 Embraer 170 Shuttle - 3 - Defense and Security* - 2 7 ERJ 135 - 1 1 Phenom 100 - - 4 Legacy 600 - 1 - EMBRAER 190 - - 2 TOTAL JETS 204 246 244 Deliveries shown in parentheses were accounted for as operational leasing.  *Includes only the deliveries of executive jets configured for transporting officials and for State-owned airlines. Commercial aviation achieved  revenues of R$6.2 billion,  and was responsible for 64% of  Embraers total sales for the year.  Among main consumer markets  are Europe, Asia-Pacific, and  North America. 76 annual report embraer 2011  REvENuES pER SEgMENT  Net revenues for the commercial aviation mar- ket grew 10% over the R$5,707.3 million of 2010, coming to R$6,273.6  million, due to the improved product mix and greater number of de- liveries, despite the increased value of the Real during the period. The  executive aviation market generated revenues of R$1,930.4 million in  2011, or 8% less than the R$2,095.6 million of 2010. Net revenues of the defense and security market were R$1,444.7 mil- lion in 2011, and remained stable, compared to the R$1,445.2 million  of 2010. Other business was responsible for R$209.3 million in rev- enues in 2011. Brazils share of the Companys net revenues continued to expand,  from 4% in 2008 to 17% in 2011. The main contributing factors were  continued deliveries to Azul Linhas Areas Brasileiras, as well as a sub- stantial increase in revenues from the defense and security business. In a reversal of the direction of last year, North Americas share began  to grow, again, and came to 20% of net revenues, mainly due to a  boost in commercial aviation deliveries in that region. REvENuES by SEgMENT   2011 2010 2009 Commercial Aviation 64% 61% 69% Executive Aviation 19% 23% 17% Defense and Security 15% 15% 12% Others 2% 1% 2% REvENuES by REgION   2011 2010 2009 North America 20% 13% 22% Europe 25% 33% 33% Latin America 11% 15% 7% Brazil 17% 13% 11% Asia Pacific 23% 22% 21% Others 4% 4% 6% 77 economic-financial performance and capital market  OpERATINg ExpENSES  In 2011, operating expenses totaled R$1,697.5  million, showing a growth of 53% over the R$1,112.3 million of 2010,  due particularly to the other (expenses) operating income account,  which went from revenues of R$16.9 million in 2010 to an expense of  R$410.4 million in 2011. This increase was caused by provisioning  R$465.3 million, mainly due to the Compa- nys current estimate for covering eventual  losses related to its obligations for financial  and residual value guarantees (RvG) offered  to financial agencies and customers of air- craft from the ERJ 145 family. American Airlines (AMR), which filed for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection at the end  of 2011, currently operates 216 ERJ 145 family  jets, via its wholly owned subsidiary Ameri- can Eagle, and its final decision on how it will  manage this fleet is still being weighed. In order to handle this sce- nario, Embraer provisioned R$583.2 million, based on its best estimate  at that moment. Considering that this decision could impact the secondary market for re- gional jets, due to the increased availability of aircraft coming out of this  restructuring process, a Embraer also accounted for R$79.4 million from  adjustments in residual value and financial guarantees, in order to cover  potential future expenses associated with the ERJ 145 family. This amount also took into consideration a complementary provision  for certain financial guarantees of 36 ERJ 145 aircraft that were op- erated by Mesa AirGroup and that still had not been resold. In this  manner, Embraer completed the total provision expected to cover all  of the guarantees.  R$197.3 million of the total provisioning were accounted for as finan- cial expenses and had no impact on operating results. The rest was  classified as other operating expenses and, de- spite having impacted the Companys operating  results in 2011, the cash disbursement related to  these guarantees is expected to occur over the  coming years. With the payroll increase of approximately 10%,  in November 2010, the operating expenses were  impacted negatively in 2011. Commercial and administrative expenses  During  2011, commercial expenses rose 7% over the  previous year, and totaled R$702.9 million,  representing 7% of net sales revenues. Furthermore, the Company continued investing in the develop- ment of its customer support network, especially in executive  aviation, and it intensified its actions for establishing the product  strategy for commercial aviation. Administrative expenses totaled R$440 million in 2011, showing  a growth of 27% compared to the R$346.1 million of the previous  year, which is explained by increased labor costs, as well as the  organizational changes that occurred in Embraer and the incorpo- ration of new companies acquired during the year. Operating expenses grew  in 2011, mainly due to  provisioning and increased  labor costs, as well as  organizational changes and  the incorporation of new  companies. 78 annual report embraer 2011  79 economic-financial performance and capital market  OpERATINg RESulTS  After the contingencies mentioned here, the  Companys operating results (EBIT) totaled R$521.8 million in 2011,  or 24% less than the R$685.6 million calculated the previous year,  generating an operating margin of 5.3%, which is less than the  7.3% for 2010. If we remove from this calculation the negative effect of provision- ing on the results and the reception of fines arising from the cancel- lation of aircraft, which had a positive impact, the operating margin  would have been 8.9%, above the guidance of 8.3%. This result can  be explained mainly by the improved operating efficiency originat- ing with the P3E program. EbITDA  EBITDA achieved R$923 million in 2011, which is 14% less  than the R$1,069.2 million of the previous year. The EBITDA margin  was equally impacted and came to 9.4%. The EBITDA margin before  the provisioning would have been 13%. r$ 923 million EBITDA achieved by   Embraer at the end of 2011 NET pROfIT AND NET MARgIN  During 2011, Embraer recorded net fi- nancial expenses of R$139.7 million, when 2010 had generated net  financial revenues of R$29.5 million, mainly due to the provisioning  mentioned above.  Therefore, in 2011, Embraer before-tax profits of R$382.1 million,  while in 2010 they were R$715.1 million. This negative difference of  47% was also impacted by more taxes levied during the period, be- cause of the appreciation of the Real.  For that reason, the net profits of R$156.3 million attributed to Em- braer were 73% less than the R$573.6 million calculated in 2010, and  the net margin reached 1.6%, which is under the 6.1% calculated for  the previous year.  If the effects of the provisioning and the deferred income tax for the  period are removed from these results, net profits would be R$852.3  million in 2011, compared to the R$628.7 million of 2010, with net  margins of 8.6% and 6.7%, respectively.  80 annual report embraer 2011  ASSET INDICATORS  The following are Embraers main asset indicators for the past two years: At the end of fiscal 2011, net cash was 27% less than the previous  year, coming to R$836.2 million, mainly due to acquisitions made by  the defense and security segment, as well as to the greater volume of  investments during the period. Embraer closed out the year with a total indebtedness of R$3,110.1 mil- lion, 30% more than the R$2,390.6 million of the previous year. Eighty- five percent of the total indebtedness was in long-term credit lines,  and consists of R$1,945.5 million (63%) in credit lines, the majority  of which were stated in Dollars, and the remaining R$1,164.7 million  (37%) are stated in Reals, with the average indebtedness of five years. hIghlIghTED CONSOlIDATED AMOuNTS  R$ million 2011 2010 2009 Available* 3,946.3 3,543.4 4,433.4 Accounts Receivable 949.2 581.9 709.3 Financing for Customers 191.9 117.5 91.9 Inventory 4,291.0 3,662.8 4,257.3 Permanent Assets** 4,236.9 3,194.6 3,180.8 Suppliers 1,556.7 1,250.0 1,038.3 Indebtedness – Short-Term 472.2 120.9 1,031.5 Indebtedness – Long-Term 2,637.9 2,269.7 2,552.5 Net Assets 5,848.6 5,217.7 5,019.7 * Includes cash and cash equivalents and asset and liability financial instruments. ** Includes fixed assets and intangibles. The inventory position at the end of the year was R$4,291.0 million,  or 17% more than the corresponding amount in December 2010. This  increase came mainly from the strengthening of the Dollar, at the end  of the year, which was approximately 12.6%. Therefore, this real inven- tory variation was less than 5%. In 2012, it is expected that despite the  increased number of deliveries, there will be an inventory reduction. The 30% increase in indebtedness, which was compensated by a 12%  rise in net assets, maintained a stable ratio between debt and net as- sets. Furthermore,  asset and inventory turnover remained practically  stable, due to the continuity of the  management of the supply chain. The reduced return on assets (ROA) and return on equity (ROE) can  be explained by the impact of the exchange rate on the asset ac- counts balance and also by the provisioning that was made, as al- ready mentioned. 81 economic-financial performance and capital market  DESTINATION Of ThE RESulTS Of ThE CONTROllINg COMpANy   In 2011,  Embraer distributed R$180.9 million to its shareholders, in the form of  interest on own capital, which represented 116% of consolidated net  profits of R$156.3 million. Therefore, the Company will make no ad- ditional distribution of interest on own capital and dividends, and there  will be no retention of net profits for the fiscal year. vAluE-ADDED DISTRIbuTION (vAD)  gri ec1  vAD indicates the value  generated by Embraer and its distribution to the segments of soci- ety represented by shareholders, employees, financial institutions,  and government (municipal, state and federal). The value-added to  be distributed totaled R$2,581.7 million and represented 26% of net  revenues in 2011. Taxes, social contributions and municipal, state and federal fees that  measure part of the level of contribution that Embraer provides for  Brazilian society, were R$614.9 million during fiscal 2011. caPITal MarKeT  Embraers relationship with the financial com- munity and its investors is based on the transparent and equitable  release of information, characterized by a profound respect for legal  and ethical principles, while seeking to consolidate and maintain its  leadership and innovative image with the capital market, and follow- ing the rules of the New Market (Novo Mercado) of the So Paulo  Stock Exchange (BM&FBOvESPA), which is the highest level of cor- porate government in the Nation.  CONSOlIDATED INDICATORS  R$ million IFRS 2011 2010 2009 Debt/Net Assets 0.5 0.5 0.7 Inventory Turnover 1.8 2.1 2.1 Asset Turnover 0.6 0.7 0.7 ROA 0.9% 4.1% 5.9% ROE 2.7% 11.0% 18.2% ROCE* 11.9% 16.1% 15.8% * In IFRS US$. ROCE: Return on Capital Employed. 82 annual report embraer 2011  The Companys stocks have been listed on the So Paulo Stock Ex- change (BM&FBOvESPA), since 1989, and on the New York Stock  Exchange (NYSE), through level III American Depositary Receipts  (ADR), since 2000. In 2011, Embraer maintained its listing on the theoretical IBrX (Brazil In- dex), IGC (Corporate Governance Stock Index), Corporate Sustainabil- ity Index (ndice de Sustentabilidade Empresarial – ISE), Special Tag Along  Stock Index (ndice de Aes com Tag Along Diferenciado – ITAG), Indus- trial Sector Index (ndice do Setor Industrial – INDX), and IvBX-2 Index  (ndice Valor Bovespa 2 Linha).  Embraer was, once again, chosen to be listed on the Dow Jones Sustain- ability Index (DJSI), leading the Aerospace and Defense sector. Due to  the lower liquidity of the Companys stocks, it dropped off from the IBrX-  50 and ICO2 (Carbon Efficiency) indexes. STOCk pERfORMANCE  Embraers (EMBR3) stocks traded on the  BM&FBOvESPA closed out 2011 quoted at R$11.76, which was prac- tically stable, compared to the close of the previous year, while the  BM&FBOvESPA index devaluated by 19% for the same period.  The Companys (ERJ) American Depositary Shares (ADS), listed on  the NYSE, achieved a price of US$25.22 at the end of the year, de- valuating by 15%, while the Dow Jones rose 5%. vAluE-ADDED DISTRIbuTION  R$ million 2011 2010 2009 Total 2,581.7 2,707.0 2,966.6 People 1,358.3 1,359.2 1,467.6 Government (taxes, fees and contributions) 614.9 503.7 119.3 Interest and Rent 437.2 244.0 442.4 Interest on Own Capital and Dividends 226.2 155.7 228.9 Retained Earnings/Losses for the Period -69.9 417.8 683.2 Participation of non-Controllers 15.0 26.6 25.2 2 0 1 2 83 economic-financial performance and capital market  CApITAl ON DECEMbER  31, 2011 37% 9% 7.2% 5.5% 25.1% 10.6% 5.6% NYSE Others Oppenheimer Funds Thornburg Investment BNDESPAR BM&FBOVESPA Others Previ Grupo Bozano CApITAl ON DECEMbER 31, 2011 723,666,644 Ordinary Shares* 53% 47% NYSE BM&FBOVESPA * Does not include 16,798,400 shares deposited in the  treasury, with no political or economic value. EMbR3 pERfORMANCE – bM&fbOvESpA 01/01/2011 = 100 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 jan 11  feb 11 mar 11 apr 11 may 11 jun 11 jul 11 aug 11 sep 11 oct 11 nov 11 Embraer BM&FBovEspa ERj pERfORMANCE – NySE 01/01/2011 = 100 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Embraer NYsE jan 11  feb 11 mar 11 apr 11 may 11 jun 11 jul 11 aug 11 sep 11 oct 11 nov 11 84 annual report embraer 2011  During the period, the North American market traded an average of  1,204,000 ADS per day, which is the equivalent of an average daily  financial flow of US$34.7 million. On the Brazilian stock exchange,  daily trading volume averaged 1,623,000 shares, for an average fi- nancial volume of R$19.5 million. Embraers market value, at the end of 2011, was US$4.7 billion, com- pared to US$5.4 billion for the previous year. ShAREhOlDER REMuNERATION  With reference to fiscal 2011, Em- braer distributed R$180.9 million to its shareholders, in the form of  interest on own capital (Joint Cost Position – JCP), or the equivalent  of R$0.25 per share, which represented a payout of 116% of net prof- its for the period. The JCP distribution to shareholders was approved by the Board of  Directors in meetings held during the fiscal year. On March 16, the distribution of R$43.4 million was approved, at  R$0.06 per share, for the 1st quarter of 2011, with payment beginning  on April 19, 2011. On June 9, the distribution of R$72.4 million was approved, at R$0.10  per share, for the 2nd quarter of 2011, with payment beginning on July  22, 2011. And on September 14, the distribution of R$65.1 million was ap- proved, at R$0.09 per share, for the 3rd quarter of 2011, with payment  beginning on October 17, 2011. 2011 2010 2009 181 201 229 DIvIDENDS DISTRIbuTED  r$ million million distributed in  2011 million distributed in  2010 million distributed in  2009 sector leader on the   Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) 85 economic-financial performance and capital market  Since my college days, I have admired Embraer for its ecological  stand, and for its concerns about impacting the environment with  its production processes. This concern was evident, in the middle of  the last decade, when Embraer certified the first ethanol-powered  aircraft. So, in 2009, when we started to develop biofuels, Embraer  was the ideal partner. Besides Embraer, the project has the support  of GE, which develops aircraft engines, and Amyris, which develops  and manufactures the renewable fuel that will be used. The first  test with this type of fuel will be performed in 2012 on one of our  Embraer E-jets, with a 50% biofuel mix. ADAlbERTO fEbElIANO,  DIRECTOR Of INSTITuTIONAl RElATIONS fOR Azul lINhAS  AREAS. Since childhood, I have loved math and physics. My teacher  suggested that I should study at a private school, but my family  couldnt afford it. That was when I heard of Embraer Juarez  Wanderley High School. I passed the exam, and got in. It was  a great opportunity, because besides a scholarship to a top-of- the-line school, I received a uniform, course materials, meals  and transportation. I finished high school and was accepted at  six universities. I chose Electrical Engineering at Unicamp. After  three years, I was granted a scholarship to study in France at  the cole Polytechnique, where I graduated with Bachelors and  Masters Degrees. Shortly thereafter, I was accepted for Embraers  Engineering Specialization Program. Today, my dream is to join  Embraer and help my country. I was the first one in my family to  travel abroad, and the first one to fly on a plane. If it werent for  Embraers school, nothing like this would have happened to me.   DOuglAS fElIx fERREIRA, fORMER STuDENT Of EMbRAER juAREz  WANDERlEy hIgh SChOOl.  The Embraer Institute focuses on education, because without  education there is neither economic improvement nor social justice.  Embraers Juarez Wanderley High School is its largest project and offers  free quality education to 600 young people coming from the public  school systems in the So Jos dos Campos region. The purpose is to  provide students with a well-rounded education, an appreciation of  ethics and citizenship, and access to the best universities in the country.  However, our work goes beyond the classrooms of Embraers school.  With the involvement of the companys employee volunteers in the  neighboring communities, we prepare young people for the job market,  collaborate in improving the quality of education for children and  adolescents, and promote social and ecological awareness. We also  emphasize sustainability. In 2011, we launched the Embraer Center for  Environmental Education – Jequitib, in So Jose dos Campos, which  will address such topics as renewable energy, sustainable buildings  and industrial processes, recycling and, of course, the study of local  biodiversity. With this investment, the seed is being sown for the future  of our young people, and offers them an opportunity to take a big leap  in their lives.  pEDRO fERRAz, DIRETOR DO INSTITuTO EMbRAER DE  EDuCAO E pESQuISA. we build a  SuSTAINAbl fuTuRE  For the purpose of  minimizing the environmental impacts throughout the  life cycle of the product, Embraer takes action to improve products and  processes, engages the supply chain, and optimizes the logistics for raw  materials, parts, and components. e build a sustainable future. This is one of the values that Embraer proudly  defends as a guideline for its corporate actions, focusing on the perpetuity of  its business. Embraer continuously seeks to establish itself as a sustainable company, which means con- tributing to a healthier environment and to social development in the same proportion, as it  takes into consideration the satisfaction of its customers, shareholders, employees, and other  stakeholders. Among other initiatives, the Company is attentive to environmental risks, the socioenviron- mental qualification of suppliers, the optimization of its production process, and investments  in educational projects that focus on human development, the well-being of the communities  with which it is involved, and meeting the requirements of the qualification, health, safety, and  quality of life of its employees. In order to minimize its environmental impact, Embraer deals with the life cycle of its product  and focuses on the efficiency of its processes, besides supporting initiatives from the aero- space sector for mitigating greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, such as participating in aviation  biofuels projects. Socioenvironmental  Performance W 88 annual report embraer 2011  enVIronMenTal PerForMance  gri pr3  Environmental per- formance is fully embraced by the Company management, which deals  with an approach based on the life cycle of the product, examining the  environmental impacts of each of its phases. This approach implies go- ing beyond the traditional focus on the manufacturing process, restricted  to the production site, analyzing environmental, social and economic im- pacts throughout the entire life cycle of the product. This model is based on improvements related to the:   Product, from its conception phase, through development and test- ing, by applying Design for Environment (DfE) practices, which  seek to anticipate and minimize environmental impacts without  compromising essential aircraft requirements, like quality, safety  and cost;   Processes, by using the best eco-efficient practices that seek to op- timize the use of natural resources--water, energy, materials--and  minimize the generation of solid wastes, liquid effluents and gas  emissions, thus providing environmental and economic benefits;  gri en6 | en7   Engagement of the supply chain, aligned with Embraers environ- mental vision and its demands;  Optimization of logistics for raw materials, parts and components. In 2011, Embraer began a series of actions linked to Life Cycle Man- agement that integrate several areas of the Company. These actions  are added to the efforts to make employees aware and capable, the  continuous improvement of environmental actions, and monitor- ing of processes, activities and results provided for in the Integrated  Management System for the Environment, Occupational Health and  Safety, and Quality (SIG-MASSQ). Therefore, Embraer joins its commitment to preserving the environ- ment and natural resources – as reflected in the unrestricted compli- ance with all of the legal requirements and environmental standards  of the countries in which it is active – to the proactivity that is in- dispensable for companies that truly commit to collaborating with a  more sustainable world. The Company continues to be aligned with the challenges of the air  transportation industry, as a whole, in order to reduce environmental  impact, especially GHG emissions in the life cycle of the aircraft and  the use of hazardous materials. ENvIRONMENTAl MANAgEMENT SySTEM AND OpERATINg INDICATORS   The environmental principles and guidelines that lead Embraer are  detailed in its Environmental Policy, which focuses on the proactive at- titudes needed for sustainable development, handled by the Integrated  Management System for the Environment, Occupational Health and  Safety, and Quality (SIG-MASSQ), which will be ten years old in 2012. Embraers programs that are related to environmental certification  are based on the pursuit of continuous improvement by:  Preserving natural resources (consumption goals);  Establishing corporate environmental indicators;  Achieving environmental objectives and goals;  Meeting the demand of interested parties. In 2002, Embraer became the first company of the aerospace in- dustry in the world to receive ISO 14001 certification, which sets the  guidelines for an effective environmental management system. With  an annual evaluation by the firm ABS Quality, the efforts put forth  by the Company, over the years, have resulted in annually receiving  the international ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications (the lat- ter for occupational health and safety). All of the Companys units  in Brazil have objectives and goals aligned with the management of  atmospheric emissions, wastes, and natural resources. Through the Embraer Entrepreneurial Excellence Program (P3E), the en- vironmental management system was strengthened by adopting criteria  related to the environment, health, and safety for certification (bronze,  silver and gold) of each cell group of the Company, with goals for reduc- ing the use of natural resources and of reducing job-related accidents. 89 socioenvironmental performance  90 annual report embraer 2011  These criteria include: not having pending conformities or being  without an action plan; fully complying with environmental legisla- tion in the countries where the Company has units or sells its prod- ucts; updating and monitoring the environmental spreadsheets and  performing a self-evaluation of SIG-MASSQ. The cell groups responsible for projects or results directly connected  with the Environmental Master Plan have indicators for following up  on the evolution of the actions put in place. In 2012, an Environment  site will go online, by which the units will report the data regarding  operational indicators, thus facilitating their consolidation and stra- tegic management. Since 2010, Embraer has evaluated and identified energy efficiency  projects, while rationalizing natural resources and reducing the gen- eration of wastes in the various production and administrative pro- cesses, besides finalizing the establishment of long-term goals for  the environment. ENvIRONMENTAlly SuSTAINAblE pRODuCT  gri ec2 | en26  The global  air transportation industry is responsible for about 2% of the green- house gas emissions generated by human actions. The increased ef- ficiency of this industry over past decades has avoided making the  current scenario of environmental impacts more widespread, in light  of the constant growth of air traffic, which should continue over the  coming years. In response, civil aviation as a whole-airline companies, aircraft and  engine manufacturers, airports and air traffic controllers–has been  working in a coordinated fashion on a series of goals for minimizing  those impacts. Therefore, Embraer supports and takes part in the in- dustry commitment to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by  50% from air transportation by 2050, based on the figures for 2005. As an integral part of the aerospace chain and for the purpose of  meeting the environmental challenges involved with its activities,  Embraer launched the Integrated Development Program for Environ- mentally Sustainable Products (Desenvolvimento Integrado do Produto  Ambientalmente Sustentvel – DIPAS). The main objective of the pro- gram is to incorporate environmental issues with Integrated Product  Development, taking into consideration everything from obtaining  raw materials to recycling or finally disposing of the product, or the  so-called product life cycle. DIPAS is involved in the concept, development and test phases and  its goals should be achieved by applying Design for Environment  (DfE) practices. Those practices anticipate and minimize the envi- ronmental impacts caused during the subsequent phases (produc- tion, operation and disposal) and even before that (extraction and  processing of materials), without compromising other requirements  that are essential to the aircraft, like quality, safety, and cost. The scope of the DIPAS program also includes regulatory follow-up  of the environment, in terms of the product and its resulting effects  at Embraer. Restrictions on the use of hazardous materials in the  airplane and studies for substituting them are some of the actions  exemplifying this. Embraers technological development plan gives priority to other  initiatives for innovation and increasing efficiency, with the highlight  being the following lines of research:  Aerodynamic perfection of the airplanes;   Intensive use of lighter materials, to reduce the structural weight  of the aircraft;   Aircraft development with more electrical systems, that depend  less on energy generated by the engine;   Development of new generations of engines, in cooperation with  manufacturers of propulsion systems;   Research of new technologies for reducing internal and external  noise levels, with the objective of increasing the comfort of passen- gers and causing less sound impact around airports;  Research of alternative fuels, including biofuels. Embraer takes part in developing public policies regarding future product  regulations, in conjunction with governments and representatives of so- ciety, in general. The effort occurs via the participation of Embraer tech- nicians on the Environmental Protection Committee of the International  Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). The objective of this committee is  to improve aviation performance, in terms of generating noise, emitting  greenhouse gases, and air quality.  gri so5 91 socioenvironmental performance  sTraTeGIc ParTnershIPs  gri en26 | so5 DEvElOpMENT Of bIOkEROSENE    Support for developing sustainable  fuels for aviation is one of the initiatives adopted by the industry. The  objective is to obtain sustainable biofuels, with levels of quality, safe  use, cost and adequate production capacity, compared to petroleum  derivatives. Embraer supports and participates in initiatives focusing on develop- ing biofuels as a sustainable long-term solution for aviation. It is the  Companys job, as an integrator, to assess the impact of the new fuels  on its platforms. The highlights of these initiatives are The Brazilian Alliance for Bio- fuels in Aviation (Aliana Brasileira para Biocombustveis na Aviao –  ABRABA), the international Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group  (SAFUG), the European consortium Sustainable Way for Alternative  Fuels and Energy for Aviation (SWAFEA), and the U.S. Commercial  Aviation Alternative Fuels Initiative (CAAFI). ABRABA especially presents itself as a forum for discussing a variety  of aspects of developing sustainable aviation biofuels, which posi- tions Brazil as one of the worlds leading players in this technology. At the end of 2009, Embraer, General Electric, and Amyris signed a  memorandum of understanding to assess the technical and sustain- ability aspects of the renewable fuel produced by Amyris. The project  provides for a flight in 2012, using sugarcane as a biomass in an air- plane belonging to Azul Linhas Areas. At the same time, Embraer supports the sustainability studies for this  fuel, through a project to be developed in a partnership with ICONE  (a Brazilian agribusiness think-tank that has become a reference in  agricultural studies, involved in projects and research on biofuels)  and Boeing, and with the backing of the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). Embraer also has partnerships with other aerospace companies, for  the development of renewable fuels. In October 2011, Embraer, Boe- ing, and the Research Assistance Foundation of the State of So Paulo  (Fundao de Amparo  Pesquisa do Estado de So Paulo – FAPESP)  announced an agreement to develop a biofuel research and develop- ment program for aviation in Brazil. Azul, GOL, TAM, and TRIP airline  companies will be strategic consultants for the program. The agreement provides for a detailed study of the opportunities and  challenges for creating an industry in Brazil to produce and distribute  sustainable and economically efficient aviation fuel derived from bio- mass. The study should be concluded by the end of 2012, with an eye  to creating a future research center. Therefore, Embraer sees the production of aviation biofuels in Brazil  as making it possible for farmers, technicians and industries to create  a consistent technological base, besides generating economic and  social benefits for the Nation. Embraers support for initiatives  related to biofuels for aviation  is evident in the partnerships it  forms. Among its main actions are  a broad discussion of the subject in  the industry and partnerships with  other companies to develop and test  alternative renewable fuels. 92 annual report embraer 2011  ExPEriMEnTAL FLiGhT  In 2011, an experimental  flight was performed with an EMBRAER 170 jet that  took off three times from the runway at the Gavio  Peixoto plant, equipped with engines built by GE,  and fueled by Hydroprocessed Esters and Fatty Acids  (HEFA), made from camelina. On August 25, and September 1 and 2, 2011, successful  test flights were taken that included simulated risks, to  evaluate the performance of the airplane. The GE engine  ran on a mixture of Jet-A (petroleum derivative) and  HEFA, at the maximum proportion permitted by the  American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM),  which is 50% of each.   93 socioenvironmental performance  uSINg RESOuRCES water ConSumption  gri en8  Embraer follows a continuous process  of surveying opportunities and implementing projects for optimizing  the use of water in its productive processes and in its administrative  area. The water used at the Faria Lima, Eugenio de Melo, Gavio Peix- oto, and ELEB units is taken from the water table, and the other Brazil  units (Taubat and Botucatu) are served by the public water system. In 2011, water consumption came to 614,840 m3, which was 10%  more than what was consumed the previous year. The increased use  was boosted by construction work on a new building at the Gavio  Peixoto plant, for the KC-390 program.  Other projects are being assessed and prioritized according to Em- braers long-term plan of eco-efficiency goals. eleCtriCal power ConSumption  gri en4  In Brazil, Embraers units pur- chase electricity from the concessionaires in the regions where they  are located. There were 112,900 MWh (or 406,440 GJ) acquired, in  2011, which was a reduction of 3% from 2010.  environmental evolution oF proCeSSeS  gri en26  Embraer continues  to perfect its processes, with an eye to optimizing the use of natural re- sources and minimizing waste at its production plants. In 2011, aligned  with the P3E program, Cleaner Production concepts were put in prac- tice in the cell groups of the Faria Lima unit, resulting from a survey of  opportunities for improvement. The portfolio that is being created, and that will be extended, during a  future phase, to the other Brazil units, will give a basis for establishing  project priorities, in 2012, in line with the long-term operating goals  that are being adopted by the Company to improve its environmental  indicators. Actions for improvement were conceived of and followed up by the In- ternal Electricity and Water Committee (Comisso Interna de Energia  Eltrica e gua – CICEA), which is responsible for spreading ideas, infor- mation and technologies for eco-efficiency. Since 2008, these projects  have been under the watchful eye of the School of Electrical Engineering  of the So Paulo State University (Universidade Estadual Paulista Jlio  de Mesquita Filho – UNESP) in the city of Guaratinguet.  Some of the main projects carried out in 2011 were cited: 94 annual report embraer 2011  MAIN pROjECTS CARRIED OuT IN 2011  gri en5 Improvement Action Unit Estimated 30% reduction in vOC   emissions in the F-120 paint shop Installation of robot for optimizing painting process, with  precise quantities of paint used Faria Lima Estimated reduction of 600 m3 of water  consumption in the restrooms Installation of 120 timed faucets, for the 2nd phase of the  project (conclusion expected for 2012) Faria Lima Estimated 517 MWh reduction in   electrical consumption to light   administrative areas Concluded installation of 1,400 more efficient light fixtures Faria Lima 50% reduction in volume of wastes   formerly sent to the landfill Disposal for compost of food scraps and tree and bush  trimmings Faria Lima   Eugnio de Melo Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG)  emissions, in tests with engine runs Engine run during ground tests shortened by 8 hours Faria Lima 6% reduction in electricity consumption   (KW/man hours worked/month) Improvement projects in production areas, including fixing  compressed-air leaks, placing transparent tiles in a few  areas, and beginning to change to low-consumption light  bulbs ELEB 9% reduction in water consumption   (m3/employee/day) Working with employee awareness ELEB Increase of about 20% in water treatment  capacity Updating ion exchange equipment in treatment plant ELEB 8.7% reduction in energy consumption   over 2010  Conservation and efficiency improvements Botucatu Lower volume of wastes sent to landfill Initial composting of organic waste (restaurant and  gardening) Botucatu Reduced water consumption Reuse of 25% of the water volume in treatment plant  processes GRI EN10 Gavio Peixoto 95 socioenvironmental performance  WASTES, EffluENTS AND EMISSIONS greenHouSe gaS (gHg) emiSSionS  gri en16 | en17 | en18 | en19  Embraer continuously seeks to reduce its greenhouse gas (GHG)  emissions via projects for improving efficiency, reducing electrical  consumption, internal logistics for products being manufactured,  and consumption of kerosene during technical and corporate flights.  Embraer takes an annual inventory of its GHG emissions, according  to the standards of the World Resources Institute/World Business  Council for Sustainable Development (WRIWBCSD). For the third consecutive year, Embraer has checked its GHG invento- ry, based on ISO 14.064 - Part I, Specifications for Quantifying, Moni- toring and Reporting Emissions and Removing Entities, in an audit by  Lloyds Register Quality Assurance, which is a certification obtained  by few Brazilian companies. This triumph, which attests to the reliability of the GHG inventory, is  due to the actions put forth by to quantify and monitor the GHG emis- sions at its units. In 2012, long-term goals will be set to reduce GHGs. voluntary initiatives for reporting the GHG inventory  Embraer supports volun- tary initiatives for reporting GHGs. Since 2007, the Company has partici- pated in the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program, as one of its founding mem- bers, and in 2011 it received the Gold Seal, once again. Embraer also reports its GHG emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project  (CDP). The CDP is an organization that brings investors together in search  of information for decision making, taking into account the corporate risk  of future government legislation, possible court suits, and consumer per- ceptions regarding large GHG emitters. Besides providing a better understanding and positioning regarding the  subject, joining these initiatives leads the Company to a better relationship  with stakeholders and to an increased capacity for taking part in setting  public carbon market policies, among other competitive advantages. ghg EMISSIONS IN 2011  (tCO2eq) Brazil Units Scope  I Scope  II Scope  III Faria Lima 26,924.5 1,738.8 4,484.1 Eugnio de Melo 1,807.7 365.8 1,230.4 Taubat 0.048 63.2 23.1 Botucatu 2,825.9 445.1 1,428.4 Gavio Peixoto 1,545.9 364.4 2,074.3 ELEB 272.3 298.2 229.1 Corporate air travel - - 14,347.2 96 annual report embraer 2011  eFFluentS and waSteS  gri en22  The main processes that generate  waste are: milling parts, producing composite materials, perform- ing surface treatments, and painting an aircraft. The total amount of  hazardous and non-hazardous wastes generated by the Company, in  2011, was 16,136 tons. Methods of disposing of wastes by weight (%)  Approximately 50% of all  organic waste did not go to landfills. This refers to food scraps and tree  and bush trimmings, which began to be sent to make compost. Hazardous wastes  gri en24  Hazardous materials are given special care  in their disposal. Of the 3,437 tons generated in 2011, only a small  part (39 tons, generated at the ELEB unit) is sent to landfills. This  means that 98.8% is sent to a safe and tracked destination, that is,  for recycling, decontamination, recovery, and co-processing. The  Companys goal is to achieve 100%, already in 2012. Used fluorescent bulbs are recycled; the mercury is used to pro- duce thermometers, the aluminum is reused to make cans, and the  powdered chemical is used to make ceramics. Cans, filters, cleaning  cloths and left-over paint are used in the ovens of cement plants. The  chemical sludge generated by surface treatments and chemical mill- ing processes is transformed into metal oxides used to finish floors  and wall tiles. Disposal of all water, according to quality and destination gri en21 | en25  The  liquid effluents generated at Embraer in operational and administrative  areas are treated according to current norms. The Faria Lima, Eugnio de Melo, ELEB, and Botucatu units dispose of  them in the local sewer company (SABESP) lines, after performing their  own treatment process, in line with Decree no. 8,468 (September 8,  1976), Article 19A. At the Gavio Peixoto unit physical-chemical treat- ment is given to the industrial effluents, in order to dispose of them, later,  in the Mulada stream. The Botucatu unit also disposes of its industrial  effluents – after duly treating them – into a body of water. 77% 5% 10% 8% Recycling Recovery Sanitary Landfill Composting METhODS Of DISpOSINg Of WASTES 97 socioenvironmental performance  The volumes disposed of in 2011 at these units are shown in the following table: DOMESTIC EffluENTS  Units Destination (m/year) Faria Lima PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM 220,667 Eugnio de Melo PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM 46,853 Taubat BODY OF WATER 3,452 Botucatu PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM 46,486 Gavio Peixoto BODY OF WATER 28,565 ELEB PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM N/D Total   346,023 INDuSTRIAl EffluENTS  Units Destination (m/year) Faria Lima pUBLIC sEWaGE sYsTEM 27,662 Eugnio de Melo pUBLIC sEWaGE sYsTEM 3,820 Taubat BoDY oF WaTER N/A Botucatu pUBLIC sEWaGE sYsTEM 34,979 Gavio Peixoto BoDY oF WaTER 1,798 ELEB pUBLIC sEWaGE sYsTEM 6,048 Total   74,307 98 annual report embraer 2011  otHer atmoSpHeriC emiSSionS: voC, Sox, nox, and partiCulate materialS gri en20  The total disposal of volatile organic compounds (vOC),  sulfur oxides (SOx) and nitrogen oxides (NOx), and particulate material, in the operations of all the Brazil units, during 2011, are shown in the  following table: Embraers objective, by 2012, is to reduce vOCs by 20%, compared  to 2008. Among the main initiatives adopted, the highlight was the  transfer of the chemical milling facilities of the Faria Lima unit to Bot- ucatu, which took place in 2010, with the implementation of a new  control and exhaust technology that allows reducing vOC emissions  by about 7 tons/year. In 2011, the Company invested in automating the painting process, by  installing robots in the largest paint shop of the Faria Lima unit. Be- sides helping improve the efficiency of the process, this measure also  will reduce vOC emissions. Also planned for the coming years is the  installation of a system for recovering solvent in the area for painting  primary parts, and reusing the solvent in processes for cleaning parts  at the Faria Lima unit. ATMOSphERIC EMISSIONS VOC emissions (t) MP emissions (t) SOx emissions (t) NOx emissions (t) Faria Lima 5.73 7.378 0.0728 13.02 Eugnio de Melo 0.094 0.155 0.140 1.389 Taubat - - - - Botucatu* 15.25 21.874 0.214 49.73 Gavio Peixoto 0.95 0.47 0 0 ELEB 3.18 3.95 1.31 23.33 Total 25.20 33.827 1.7368 87.469 * The Botucatu unit did not finish collecting the data, because on the day the monitoring took place, two paint shops were going through maintenance. pROTECTINg bIODIvERSITy  gri en11 | en12 | en13 | en14  The Gavio Peix- oto (GPX) unit finalized the establishment of a Permanent Preserva- tion Area of 200 hectares, for a total area of 1,693.39 hectares, in  2010 (in line with Advance License 000373, of December 8, 2000). Since 2001, GPX has restored an area of 356.71 hectares, by planting  seedlings of 91 species native to the region. This environmental re- covery process is backed by the Forest Restoration Project approved  by the State Department for the Protection of Natural Resources (De- partamento Estadual de Proteo de Recursos Naturais – DEPRN) –  of the Department of the Environment of the State of So Paulo. Out of the restored area, 32.38 hectares are a permanent preserva- tion area, and 328.74 hectares are a legal reserve area. In 2010, there  were 35,200 trees planted on 23 hectares, for a total of 594,200  trees, which is 100% of the projects total area (356.71 hectares). The  reforestation of the area allows restoring the local eco system and the  return of wildlife to the region. 99 socioenvironmental performance  Another preservation area is located near the Botucatu unit, where  Embraer acquired three hectares of bush land, in order to provide the  environmental compensation ordered by DEPRN, due to the impact  caused on the existing vegetation by the building expansions that  took place there. In 2009, Embraer began a project for creating a Private Reserve of  Natural Heritage (PRNH) in that place. A PRNH is a private conserva- tion unit legally instituted by public authorities. It is a voluntary act of  the owner, who transfers the ownership of the land to the State, but  continues to hold possession of the area, which then is exempt from  paying the property tax. On the PRNH, scientific research can be performed, as well as visits for  touristic, recreational and educational purposes, including with the sup- port of universities, and public organizations and agencies. In behalf of  the organization of the use and preservation of the nature area, since  2009, Embraer has been carrying out a management plan, including a  flora and fauna survey. As soon as the process is completed, it will an- nounce the existence of the area to the local community. socIal PerForMance  Embraer takes as indicators of its corpo- rate excellence the health, safety and quality of life of its employees,  and the socioeconomic development and well-being of the commu- nities with which it is in contact. From this standpoint, the Company  has communications channels and promotes a number of actions for  the purpose of maintaining a transparent, objective and responsible  relationship with its numerous stakeholders (investors and share- holders, customers, employees, public officials, community and sup- pliers, among others). The nature of its operations requires periodic contact with national,  state and municipal government officials, with whom it talks, dia- logues, negotiates, and forms legal relationships. During the year, the Company holds periodic meetings with custom- ers, besides Internet forums for exchanging experiences, including: a  variety of workshops on best practices in several areas; conferences,  meetings and events with customers, investors and shareholders, the  community and the press regarding a broad range of subjects and  purposes; regular visits by groups, including Heads of State, Min- isters and institutional representatives, to the Companys facilities  (open doors); meetings with suppliers; and others.  gri 4.16 These stakeholders also have access to the Companys information via  the institutional website (www.embraer.com.br) and the Investor Rela- tions website (ri.embraer.com.br). pEOplE  Human capital is one of Embraers main intangible assets.  Embraers people management is clearly based on the Companys  first value: Our people are what make us fly. Respect for this value  is seen in the development and training of employees and leaders, in  the benefits offered to all employees, in the absolute respect for la- bor norms, and in the numerous programs focusing on the well-being  and quality of life of the professionals. Human capital is one of Embraers  main intangible assets. Respect  for people, promoting good  health, safety and quality of life,  and investing in training and  development are recognized by  the major rankings of people  management. 100 annual report embraer 2011  Important recognition of this strategic vision of people management  can be found in the rates of satisfaction obtained in organizational cli- mate surveys done by specialized consultants and well-known pub- lications. For the third consecutive year, Embraer was ranked by the  Great Place to Work 2011 survey in 18th place among the companies  evaluated. For over a decade, Great Place to Work has been dedicated  to assisting organizations in understanding the characteristics, prac- tices and attitudes that lead to the creation of a great place to work. The consulting firm, which is located in 46 countries, performs the  survey based on a voluntary and anonymous evaluation of employ- ees and on the evaluation done with the Company to detail best  practices and benefits. The survey analyzes five dimensions of the  organizational environment: credibility, respect, impartiality, pride,  and comradeship. The methodology allows evaluating the level of  confidence of employees regarding the Company and the quality of  the relationships between employees and leaders. The Guia 150 Melhores Empresas (150 Best Places to Work), pre- pared by the magazines Exame and Voc S.A. and FIA (Fundao In- stituto de Administrao), also confirms the engagement of employ- ees, based on such subjects as identity, satisfaction and motivation,  leadership, learning, and development.  Employee satisfaction was also detected in the Survey AON Hewitt/ Valor Carreira magazine, of Valor Econmico 2011 newspaper, where  Embraer was ranked fourth among the best companies for people  management. That recognition was also given outside of Brazil: Em- braer was named by Florida Trend as one of the best companies to  work for in the State of Florida. gri la1 In all of the surveys, the results are around 84% for satisfaction,  favorability and engagement, showing  improvement and balance. 101 socioenvironmental performance  EMplOyEES AT pARTIAlly OWNED SubSIDIARIES Category Total OGMA (Portugal) 1,486 China (Joint venture) 198 ECTS (USA 19 and UK 6)  25 ORBISAT (Brazil) 177 ATECH (Brazil) 114 HARPIA (Brazil) 1  Total 2,001 proFile gRI lA1  Embraer closed out 2011 with 17,265 employees, distributed as follows: EMplOyEES   (by function – includes subsidiaries) 2011 2010 2009 Category Brazil Abroad Total Brazil Abroad Total Brazil Abroad Total Operational 7,017 12 7,029 7,479 7 7,486 7,640 43 7,683 Administrative 683 130 813 619 221 840 615 155 770 Technicians (mid-level) 2,113 460 2,573 2,130 385 2,515 2,160 280 2,440 Engineers 3,652 113 3,765 3,579 73 3,652 3,367 79 3,446 Other professionals  (top-level) 1,580 379 1,959 1,431 213 1,644 1,315 221 1,536 Leaders 944 182 1,126 895 117 1,012 855 123 978 Total 15,989 1,276 17,265 16,133 1,016 17,149 15,952 901 16,853 1. In 2009, 510 engineers were considered who hold leadership positions: total engineers – 3,956. 2. In 2010, 513 engineers were considered who hold leadership positions: total engineers – 4,165. 3. In 2011, 568 engineers were considered who hold leadership positions: total engineers – 4,333. 102 annual report embraer 2011  Women represent 18.2% of all Embraer employees, and that number  has grown in recent years.  The Company also has 733 handicapped or special needs employees,  fulfilling its social role and complying with Brazilian legislation.  organizational Climate The organizational climate survey that is  taken every year at Embraer has been reporting growing levels of sat- isfaction. In 2011, the survey was answered by 91% of the people and  the overall favorability index achieved 81%. In 2010, that index was  78%, and in 2009, it was 70%. The survey evaluates 17 factors, including satisfaction, motivation  and commitment, safety and working conditions, leadership, stra- tegic management, innovation and productivity, reliability of the  research, external relations, corporate image and citizenship, perfor- mance management, communication, pressure, stress and quality of  life, development and career, teamwork, risk, priorities and propensi- ty for change, work planning, decentralization, organization and roles,  remuneration and benefits.   DISTRIbuTION Of EMplOyEES by gENDER AND AgE RANgE  Brazil and abroad  gri la13 2011 2010 2009 Age range Male Fem. Total Male Fem. Total Male Fem. Total Up to 30 4,559 1,042 5,601 5,277 977 6,254 5,911 1,031 6,942 31 to 50 8,289 1,800 10,089 8,294 1,225 9,519 7,619 1,089 8,708 Over 50 1,267 308 1,575 1,283 93 1,376 1,116 87 1,203 Total 14,115 3,150 17,265 14,854 2,295 17,149 14,646 2,207 16,853 2011 2011 2011 5.88% 1.27% 7.15% TuRNOvER Company Initiative Employee Initiative Overall Turnover 103 socioenvironmental performance  turnover  gri la2  In 2011, the number of Embraer employees grew  by 116 people. There were 1,268 new employees hired and 1,152 left  the Company. The return of former employees was the priority, tak- ing into account their professional profile and experience, and 239  were hired, or 19% of the total. The Companys overall turnover rate  was 7.15%. remuneration and beneFitS  For Embraer, the qualification and moti- vation of its professionals is essential to the effective performance and  well-being of people at its several business units.  DISTRIbuTION Of EMplOyEES by SAlARy RANgE  (bRAzIl)  gRI EC5 Minimum Regional Wage SP (R$560.00) Minimum Regional Wage SP (R$600.00) 2010 2011 Male Female Overall Male Female Overall Salary Level Total Rel. % Total Rel. % Total Rel. % Total Rel. % Total Rel. % Total Rel. % From To 129 0.92 48 2.29 177 3.21 100 0.72 37 1.74 137 2.46 - 2 2,841 20.24 375 17.91 3,216 25.70 2,699 19.47 377 17.75 3,076 24.41 2 5 6,190 44.09 889 42.45 7,079 56.58 5,952 42.93 866 40.77 6,818 54.10 5 10 4,879 34.75 782 37.34 5,661 45.24 5,114 36.88 844 39.74 5,958 47.27 Over  10 14,039   2,094   16,133   13,865   2,124   15,989   Total The lowest salary at Embraer is 1.7 times the Regional Minimum  Wage of So Paulo, which was R$600.00 in December 2011. The benefits offered to all employees and their direct dependents in  Brazil is an important differential in attracting and retaining talents,  which is confirmed by the 2011 organizational climate survey. Ac- cording to the survey, 86% of the employees were satisfied with the  benefits offered, which follow and, in some cases, even surpass the  best practices of the market. The Company invests in developing competencies, gives incentive to  professional improvement, and promotes a remuneration policy that  is compatible with the job market and that takes into consideration  the complexity of job functions and employee performance.  The remuneration policy is aligned with exclusively technical criteria  and no form of discrimination is permitted toward the one taking the  position. The individual salary is based on qualifications, competen- cies and skills needed for doing the work. The portfolio of benefits offered by  Embraer is a distinctive difference  for attracting and retaining talent.  Among them are a healthcare and  dental plan and a complementary  pension. In 2011, about R$220  million were invested in benefits. 104 annual report embraer 2011  main beneFitS oFFered to embraer employeeS Healthcare Plan  employees and direct dependents have two health- care company options: Sul Amrica and Unimed. In them, Embraers  share varies between 100% and 90% of the total value of the plan. In  2011, the plans served 38,889 lives. Assistance to parents with handicapped children healthcare plan for di- rect dependents who are disabled, handicapped, has coverage for  after 21 years of age and different shared proportions for such treat- ments as speech therapy, occupational therapy, and psychotherapy.  In 2011, Embraer provided assistance to 72 handicapped people. Dental Health Plan  employees and their direct dependents have a right  to the dental plan. They are offered a free option and plans with ad- ditional coverage and at a significantly accessible cost. In 2011, a total  of 34,463 people benefited from the dental assistance. Employees  who retire or leave the Company have the option of continuing with  these benefits (healthcare and dental plans), by taking over 100% of  the monthly payment. Pharmacy benefit  for purchases with a Doctors prescription, Embraer  covers 70% of the amount that goes over 16% of the national mini- mum wage (R$622.00 in January 2012). In 2011, Embraers share for  the purchase of medications came to R$13.4 million. Group life insurance  Embraer offers its employees group life insurance  (extended to direct dependents) and trainees. The insurance covers  funeral assistance, besides accident reimbursements. In 2011, ninety- eight reimbursements were made, totaling R$4.7 million, and 32 fu- neral assistances were provided. Maternity leave  In 2010, Embraer joined the program extending ma- ternity leave from 120 to 180 days, which is a socially important ben- efit for mothers, newborn babies and their families. Complementary Pension  Embraer Prev (see side panel on next page). 41% 21% 11% 12% 13% 2% Medical, Dental and  Pharmacy Assistance Meals Employee Transportation Others Complementary Pension Life Insurance In 2011, the benefits received investments of around R$220 million,  distributed as show above. For the purpose of clarifying doubts regarding the benefits offered by  the Company and therefore improve their use, the area responsible  for them held a number of presentations, in 2011, that were attended  by 1,287 employees. Furthermore, at all of the units, a service team is  made available to assist employees in their use of the benefits. Employees also have available to them an emergency 24/7 service  for subjects related to health and/or family problems. In 2011, there  were 161 emergencies answered, for a total of 108 hours focusing on  employees outside of the regular work day. DISTRIbuTION Of bENEfIT INvESTMENTS IN 2011 105 socioenvironmental performance  EMbrAEr PrEv  gri ec3  At the end of 2008, Embraer  created Embraer Prev, which is a complementary  retirement plan that began to manage the benefit plans  sponsored by the Company and its subsidiaries, and  that were formerly administrated by BB Previdncia. Some of the results achieved throughout 2011 show the  evolution of Embraer Prev and the increased confidence  of participants and those assisted by the organization:   The assets of the Embraer Prev plan grew nearly 14%  and passed the R$1 billion mark, positioning Embraer  Prev on the level of a large closed complementary  retirement fund in Brazil;   Acceptance of the plan practically tripled, compared  to the previous year, thus generating nearly 1,200 new  participants;   The total number of participants and those receiving  assistance increased by 5%, going to 13,873 people;   The percentage of employees joining the plan increased  from 70% to 77%;   The extra contributions of participants, without a  corresponding share from the sponsor company, grew  more than 150%, compared to the same period of  2010, and rose to R$1 million;   The overall satisfaction of the participants, as well as  of those receiving assistance from Embraer Prev and  its services, was 84%, and it surpassed the results of  the previous study.   106 annual report embraer 2011  In 2011, Embraer Prev was closer to its participants and  those receiving assistance, with more than 130,000 people  handled via the available communications channels.  Furthermore, more than 80 presentations were made to an  accumulated audience of nearly 3,000 participants. The Companys contributions to the plan during 2010 and  2011 were R$40 million and de R$47 million, respectively. For more information, go to https://www.embraerprev.com.br. Sharing generated value with employees During fiscal 2011, there 16,908  employees remunerated via Profit and/or Results Sharing (PRS) at  Embraer, totaling R$74.8 million, which was 4.3% higher than the  previous year. Another modality for sharing the value generated is the Good Idea  Program that focuses on giving recognition and incentive to people  who propose improvements in processes, routines, working tools, re- duced costs, occupational safety, ergonomics, and the environment.  The program had more than 13,300 ideas presented in 2011. From  this total, 6,665 ideas were rewarded and implemented, generating a  savings of US$26.3 million for the Company. HealtH and SaFety and Quality oF liFe  gri la6  All of Embraers units  in Brazil have an Internal Accident Prevention Committee (Comisso  Interna de Preveno de Acidentes – CIPA) set up according to NR- 05 Regulation of Administrative Ruling (Portaria) 2314/78 of the  Ministry of Labor. Employees are represented by 53 full members  and 40 substitutes, who are elected annually. In the same way, the  Company is also represented by 52 full members and 39 substitutes. Besides its action plan that is revised every year, CIPA holds an annu- al Internal Accident Prevention Week (Semana Interna de Preveno  de Acidentes – SIPAT) at all of Embraers units. The health and safety  indicators are described in the Operational Performance chapter. Health and quality of life programs  gri la8  Embraer works with a num- ber of corporate programs that focus on the occupational health and  quality of life of its employees and their families. Highlighted among  these programs are: Well-being  Launched in 2009, Embraers Well-Being program consists  of the integrated management of occupational health and safety ac- tions, benefits, sports, and leisure, by offering the tools and resources  needed for employees to invest more in their health and well-being,  in physical, emotional and social aspects. In 2010, the program was  extended to Embraer units abroad. 2009 2010 2011 r$748.9 r$888.5 EvOluTION Of ASSETS Of EMbRAER pREv plAN Million Million r$1,011.2 Million 107 socioenvironmental performance  108 annual report embraer 2011  The objective is to have healthy people who are at ease with life, work- ing in a more pleasant and safe environment and, thus, contributing to  productivity, product quality, and corporate excellence. Besides the initiatives offered by the program, employees receive infor- mation about health and quality of life via the weekly Minuto Estar de  Bem (Minute of Well-being) bulletin, sent by e-mail and on the Intranet.  In 2011, Minuto Estar de Bem came out with 46 issues covering such  subjects as physical, mental and emotional health, as well as culture and  leisure tips. The following programs, focusing on employee health, are a part of the  Well-being Program: Well-being without cigarettes  The program has two main goals: make  Embraer a smoke-free environment, and this action has already been  implemented at some of the units and will continue throughout 2012;  and offer expert treatment to help people stop smoking, by combin- ing medication and group therapy. The treatment and medication are  covered 100% by the Company. In 2011, 127 people took part in this  action. Well-being without drugs  The program supports employees and their  families in treating chemical dependence. It includes specialized  treatment for employees, support for their families, and also a man- ager. There were 495 employees in this program, and 17 participants  are now being accompanied. Well-being with the scales  This program offers employees several  methods for healthy weight loss, based on the Weight Watchers  plan, for a cost that is much lower than the market price. In 2011, the  program had 338 employees participating.  Well-being with maternity  Embraer provides an area for breast feeding,  with all the comfort and privacy, so mothers can feed their babies.  The space is equipped with chairs, a refrigerator and a changing ta- ble, and talks are given to pregnant women regarding pregnancy and  how to care for the baby. Well-being With Your Heart  A medical professional offers individual- ized guidance to employees who have heart disease. The program  has assisted 30 employees. In 2011, there were 15 employees with  cardiopathies who were treated, so they could resume their habitual  activities. vaccination Program  With its focus on prevention, so as to maintain  health and well-being, Embraers vaccination Program is extended to  all employees and their direct family dependents, whatever their cho- sen health coverage. The Company covers 80% of the costs for vac- cines that are not furnished by the government, and are indicated by  the Federal Medicine Board. In 2011, Embraer invested R$652,000 in  vaccinating over 24,000 employees and family members, and even  supplied the conjugate vaccine against the seasonal H1N1 flu.  Several initiatives promote the  health, safety and quality of life  of employees. A highlight is the  Well-being Program that includes  campaigns against smoking and  the use of drugs, and support for  healthy weight loss, maternity, and  heart disease. 109 socioenvironmental performance  Health Week  With information and interaction for employees and  their families to stay up-to-date with their health, Health Week is  held annually on the premises of Embraer. In 2011, the schedule of ac- tivities included actions focusing healthy meals and physical activity:  Bicycle riding;  Workshops on healthy cooking, inside and outside of Embraer;  Nutritional activities in the production and restaurant areas;  Distribution of kits with healthy foods;   Presentations of dances and physical activities in the public gather- ing area;   Tea tasting and exhibit of garden products and grains in the public  gathering area;  Massages;  Use of 30-minute Gym in Embraer;  Step test. Occupational Health Medical Control Program  Focuses on promoting and  preserving the health of the workforce, via preventive and periodic  health exams.  Respiratory Protection Program  The objective is to ensure that all of the  workers who use breathing equipment have physical and psychologi- cal evaluations, as well as check if the equipment is adequate for the  risks and the workers. Hearing Protection Program  The objective is to ensure the physical,  mental and, especially, the aural integrity of all workers habitually  exposed to noise and, therefore, users of aural protection devices.  Plan for Excellence in Occupational Health and Safety  The objective is to re- duce job-related accidents by 70% and the degree of severity by 50%,  by December 2012, in relation to 2009. Embraer promotes other actions in behalf of the health and better  quality of life of its professionals: Embraer in Motion  The Company gives incentive to playing sports on  the part of employees and their families, through a number of initia- tives, such as support for athletes, bicycle riding, races, and keeping  up a 30-minute Gym. In 2011, Embraers team of 607 runners won  5 awards.   r$5.9 million  were invested, during the year in  qualification and training 110 annual report embraer 2011  Facilities  All of Embraers units have ample and comfortable facilities,  with tree-lined areas and leisure space, with game room, luncheonette,  several shops (optical store, video rental, cosmetics, itinerant shop) and  services (pharmacy, insurance company, forwarder, cooperative, etc.), in  order to facilitate the employees life. The restaurants also offer a light  menu. In 2011, a special restaurant was opened to offer another option  to employees. At the Caf com Leitura (Reading Cafe), employees can  also enjoy reading. Cultural front  On cultural Fridays, musicians perform in the tree-lined  areas of the Company. QualiFiCationS and training  gri la10  Throughout the entire 2011,  investments in professional qualification programs and programs  that are specific to the business, corporate, industrial, and engineer- ing areas came to R$5.9 million, with 93,000  participations by peo- ple and about 650,000 hours of training. In 2011, the Engineering Specialization Program (ESP) graduated 155  engineers specialized in aeronautics. Since the first class, in 2001,  ESP has trained 1,250 engineers. As a means of strengthening competencies and knowledge, the In- ternal Instructors Program has the participation of 832 employees  trained to teach internal classes. In 2011, there were 10,061 hours of  instruction in 1,543 courses. The process of evaluating employees according to competencies  continued in 2011. Some 10,500 evaluations were performed, gener- ating over 10,000 Individual Development Programs (IDP). Spreading and strengthening the proper practice of the corporate val- ues continued in 2011 with the 2nd Embraer values cycle. The practice  of values also had the Culture Space that, in 2011, received approxi- mately 1,800 insertions, with more than 350 cell groups of the work  teams named for practicing the values in their daily routines. In 2011, the Study Scholarship program benefited 319 employees for  an investment of R$275,000 in partially covering the cost of techni- cal and university courses connected with essential functions of the  Companys business. Educational Level | Embraer and Subsidiaries  Embraer employs highly  qualified labor. Of all of the employees in Brazil, 42% have at least a  university degree. The minimum schooling required of employees is  a high school diploma. 34% 58% 5% 3% University High School Diploma Postgraduate Masters or Ph.D. EDuCATIONAl lEvEl – EMbRAER AND SubSIDIARIES 111 socioenvironmental performance  Career management  gri la11 | la12 | ec7  Embraers actions for leader- ship development seek to ensure the accomplishment of the Compa- nys strategic corporate objectives and to contribute to the perpetuity  of the business. One of these objectives is to create Leadership Capital, which fo- cuses on forming business leaders at all levels, who are capable of  generating distinctive value for shareholders, customers, people,  partners, and society, in general. All of the hierarchical leadership levels are subjected to evaluation.  The strong points and the points needing improvement are put into  individual and effective action plans to assist these leaders in achiev- ing the results of their business, aligning them, as business leaders,  with Embraers values. From the date of hiring to retirement, Embraers Career – Flight Plan  program gives employees an integrated vision of their career path  in the Company. The program also trains leaders for discussing the  career-building process with their staff. Since 2010, Embraer has also  maintained the Career Path program, which offers all employees in- formation regarding the fundamental requirements of their profes- sional development. Embraer also encourages professional growth by promoting internal  selection processes before going to the market to fill vacant posi- tions. In 2011, there were 769 vacancies, 47% of which were filled  internally. The priority for leadership vacancies is to hire from within  the particular area and, if that is not possible, the external recruiting  will benefit candidates from the country in which the vacancy oc- curred. Another highlight is the Post-Career program that supports the em- ployees planning for retirement, including the preparation of a new  life project and knowledge transfer. In 2011, five groups, totaling 177  employees, participated in the program. 112 annual report embraer 2011  labor rigHtS  Embraer seeks to apply the best labor practices, based  on following national and international norms, such as the Consoli- dated Labor Laws (Consolidao das Leis do Trabalho – CLT), the funda- mental conventions of the International Labor Organization (ILO), the  Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and specific labor legislation of  the countries in which the Company has business and manufacturing  units, and the principles of the UN Global Compact. New employees receive detailed information regarding salaries, ben- efits, vacation time, collective bargaining agreement, rights and duties,  as well as a copy of Embraers Code of Ethics and Conduct, during the  integration program. Collective bargaining and unionization gri la4 | la9 | hr5  Embraer main- tains relations with employee unions based on respect, integrity, and  compliance with current legislation and signed agreements. Embraer maintains a relationship  with the unions that is based on  respect, integrity, and compliance  with the laws in effect and industry  agreements. There is no child  or forced labor, or that which  is analogous to slavery at the  Companys units. The collective bargaining agreements guarantee the right of the  unions to hold unionization campaigns in Company property. The  condition and individual freedom of employees to join unions is re- spected by Embraer. In the Companys Brazil units, 8.5% of the em- ployees are union members, but all employees are included in the  wage increases and social clauses negotiated in the collective bar- gaining agreements signed by the union and the Company. Embraer fully applies all of the clauses of the collective bargaining  agreements signed by its union representative with regard to job  safety, such as improved working conditions around stamping ma- chines and similar equipment, plastic injectors, and surface galvani- zation treatment. Child and Forced Labor, or Work that is Analogous to Slavery gri hr6 | hr7  There is no child labor, or work that is forced or analogous to slavery  in Embraers units. Through various means, the Company seeks to  be sure that these abusive practices do not occur in its entire value  chain, that represents everyone, from suppliers to customers. The Company complies with the minimum hiring age of 18 years, ex- cept in the case of minor apprentices, which is regulated by specific  legislation. The Code of Ethics and joining the UN Global Compact reinforce Em- braers public commitment against all of these practices that exploit  human beings.  SOCIETy   gri ec9 | so1  The pursuit of excellence in all that it does is a part  of Embraers DNA. As a knowledge-intensive Company, it works with  cutting-edge technology and believes that only well-trained profession- als can fulfill its mission and generate new business. Therefore, Embraer  chose to work with education as the master guideline of its social invest- ments, as a natural consequence of its beliefs and practices. In 2011, Embraers private social investment was on the order of R$13  million in educational programs and projects in the communities  where the Company carries out its industrial activities in Brazil. 113 socioenvironmental performance  tHe embraer eduCation and reSearCH inStitute (ieep)  gri ec8  Founded  in May 2001 and fully maintained by the Company, the Institute is the  main instrument used to develop Embraers social actions. IEEP invests in education as the fundamental subject for promoting cul- ture of inclusion and social transformation. The social projects backed  by the Institute reflect Embraers conviction regarding the possibility of  improving public education, based on an efficient management model,  focused on innovation and without a significant increase in cost. Throughout its ten-year history, the Embraer Institute has established  its involvement on five pillars: model of excellent instruction, support for  community projects, backing for public instruction, socioenvironmental  projects, and volunteer work. exCellent inStruCtion  The highlight of the commitment to excellence  is Embraer Juarez Wanderley High School, which is fully maintained by  the Company in So Jos dos Campos. The high school offers quality  instruction to 600 young people from the public school system in three  high school classes. The students receive, at no cost, quality education,  on-site meals, transportation, uniform, and instructional materials. The high school is recognized as a model for educational excellence and  has graduated 1,600 students since it opened in 2002. For four consecu- tive years, the schools students passed the college entrance exams of at  least one university, and in 2011, 85% of them were public universities,  which was the best result achieved since it was founded. Its ranking on  the National High School Exam (Exame Nacional do Ensino Mdio –  ENEM) is also a highlight. In 2010, with the last result that was released,  the high school rose to fourth place in the ranking of public and private  schools of the State of So Paulo, and to 30th place in Brazil. This model will be expanded, as of 2013, with beginning of the activi- ties of the future Embraer Casimiro Montenegro Filho High School,  which will have a capacity for 360 students, and will be located next to  Embraers Botucatu unit, in outstate So Paulo, on land granted by the  local city government. The investment that is expected for this project  will be around R$5 million. Support For publiC eduCation  Since 2003, the Embraer Institute  supports improved instructional quality for public schools in the  regions where Embraer is involved. In 2006, the Action in School  Program was created, with the objective of stimulating the active  participation of the community in school management, using the  Educational Quality Indicators. Since then, the Program has supported 75 projects, involving the  participation of 230 Embraer employee volunteers. In 2011, the nine  schools selected by the 2010 edition of the program received profes- sional consulting assistance for implementing their projects. Community projeCtS  via the Social Partnership Program (SPP), the  Embraer Institute recognizes and supports the best projects of non- profit organizations that, in a partnership with Embraer employee vol- unteers, develop activities focused on education. Since its creation in  2004, the SPP has benefited more than 40,000 people by investing  R$3.1 million in 88 social projects, involving around 700 volunteers. Socioenvironmental Projects  EIn May 2011, on the occasion of the 10th  anniversary of the Embraer Institute, the creation of the Embraer  Center for Environmental Education, Jequitib was announced, which  will open in 2012. The Center will be established in a 250,000 m2 area, in So Jos dos  Campos, and its objective is to promote environmental education for  students from elementary school through university, as well as the for- mation of teachers and the communitys professional qualifications. The Jequitib Center will be opened in a partnership with the Mu- nicipal Departments of Education and the Environment of So Jos  dos Campos, local universities and nongovernmental organizations. 114 annual report embraer 2011  115 socioenvironmental performance  Incentives for volunteers  The Embraer Institute supports a culture of  volunteerism through opportunities to be involved with its own pro- grams and projects, like the Social Partner Program (PPS), Action in  School Program (PAE), Digital Inclusion Course, Mini-Company Pro- gram, and Mini-Glider Championship. The interest shown by Embraer employees for periodic activities –  such as cleaning bees, construction, painting, gardening, language  instruction and catch-up classes, and support for events in public  schools and social organizations – caused the creation of the Wings  of Goodwill Project, in Embraers volunteer Program. In 2011, more  than 200 Embraer employees were engaged in projects supported  by the Embraer Institute. main SoCial projeCtS developed by embraer Embraer Juarez Wanderley High School (CEJW)  The main project of the  Embraer Education and Research Institute (IEEP), which has been  fully funded by the Company, since 2002.   Serves 600 students per year in the region of So Jos dos Campos,  Taubat, Caapava, and Jacare.   Free, quality instruction, with a pedagogical focus on incentives and  autonomy.  Full-time high school for students from the public school system.   According to the Ministry of Education, it is the 4th best high school  in the State of So Paulo and the 30th in the Nation (ENEM 2010).   For five consecutive years, the CEJW students passed the entrance  exams of at least one university. University Preparation Program (PPU)  Program began in 2006.   Prepares the students curriculum in a partnership with the Occu- pational Research and Development Center (U.S.), the Rede Pitgo- ras de Ensino, and the Instruction and Research Institute of Srio- Libans Hospital.   Preparation for academic and professional challenges, bringing the  reality of the job market into the school.   800 classroom/hours in four semesters: exact sciences (pre-en- gineering), humanities (pre-humanities and administration), and  biomedical (pre-biomedical).  400 students are benefited per year. Scholarship Fund for Alumni of Embraer Juarez Wanderley High School  Program began in 2005.   Embraer is the biggest contributor to the Fund, covering up to 25%  of the monthly amount paid to each scholarship holder.   The scholarship assists with the overall expenses of graduates of  Embraer Juarez Wanderley High School who study at universities  outside of the So Jos dos Campos area.   They are granted only to students with excellent academic records,  who are accepted at public or private universities with a Govern- ment scholarship (PROUNI) and who have financial limitations that  keep them from finishing their studies.   Graduates of Embraer Juarez Wanderley High School who are ben- efited by the program become contributors to the Fund, after gradu- ating from the university, returning the amount of the scholarship,  with monetary correction.   308 students were benefited in 2011. Embraer Mini-glider Championship   Program began in 2009, in a partnership with the Embraer Institute  and Embraer employee volunteers.    Its objective is to bring to seventh to ninth grade students the real  challenges from the preparation of a project report, with drawings,  diagrams and explanations related to solutions used to develop the  mini-glider, to the construction and test phases, in order to evaluate  its performance, in practice, during flight competition.  230 students participated in the program in 2011. 116 annual report embraer 2011  Action in School Program (PAE)   Community Participative Management Program for schools, cre- ated in 2006.   Stimulates reflection on the quality of school management and  proposes improvements in the educational model of public primary  and and high schools.  The projects are analyzed by the Embraer Institute.   Methodology developed under the coordination of UNICEFs Edu- cative Action, of the United Nations Development Program (PNUD)  and Brazils INEP - MEC.   In 2011, the nine schools chosen for the 2010 edition of the program  received professional assistance for implementing the projects.   Since 2006, more than 50,000 students have been benefited by  75 projects supported by and having the involvement of 230 vol- unteers. Social Partnership Program (PPS)    Program created in 2004, to foment a social culture for mobilizing  companies to identify and solve problems and to assist NGOs in  preparing and developing projects.   Active participation of Embraer employees who voluntarily prepare  and carry out the projects developed by social organizations.   From 2004 to 2011, supported 88 projects that involved more than  1,200 volunteers and benefited around 40,000 people. Digital Inclusion  Eight-month course for students from the State school system.   Qualifies participants with knowledge and techniques from infor- mation technology and the job market.   Since its creation, in 2003, some 300 students have benefited, with  the participation of 150 Embraer employee volunteers as instructors. Mini-company   Project created in 2002, in a partnership with Municipal Departments  of Education and Junior Achievement of the State of So Paulo.   Embraer employees participated in the program as volunteers to guide  the students.  Its objective is to stimulate an enterprising spirit in young people.   The program runs for 15 weeks, with three and one-half hours per week.  Participants create a company, choose their product, manufacture it  and sell it. In this way, they experience the main day-to-day processes  of a business.   Eighth grade students from the public school system participate in the  program.   The funds needed for creating the mini-company are raised by the stu- dents, themselves, by selling shares.   At the end of the program, the mini-companies are liquidated and the  results are divided among its shareholders.   About 1,200 young people from So Jos dos Campos, Botucatu,  and Araraquara have participated in the program, and more than 240   Embraer employees have acted as volunteer consultants.    For more information regarding Embraers social projects and initia- tives, go to: www.institutoembraer.com.br. Embraer Juarez Wanderley High  School is the main project of the  Embraer Education and Research  Institute. Other initiatives are also  outstanding for the citizenship and  technical preparation of young  people in Companys areas of  influence. 117 socioenvironmental performance  SupplIERS  gri ec6 | hr1 | hr2  Embraer establishes strategic long-term part- nerships with its suppliers, in order to ensure the supply of raw materials  and the main components of its products, and to optimize its production  processes. Those partnerships also ensure the security needed for meet- ing deadlines and standards of quality of the aircraft delivered and the  services provided to customers. The process for qualifying suppliers, as set forth in the Integrated Man- agement System for the Environment, Occupational Health and Safety,  and Quality (SIG-MASSQ), include criteria related to the environment,  human rights, and occupational health and safety.  If irregularities are found, the suppliers are informed and have a given  amount of time to make corrections, under the condition of canceling the  purchase or the service contract.  Since 2005, this qualification process has involved the entire supply  chain; all suppliers who are considered to be crucial or who present the  greatest environmental risks are audited by Embraer. In 2011, 80% of these crucial suppliers were considered apt for supplying  materials to Embraer, while the others needed to establish action plans  for adapting to the requirements, or be blocked. Human rigHtS  Embraers Code of Ethics reinforces its commitment to  promote a work environment free of any type of discrimination, harass- ment, and forced labor, whether child or analogous to slavery. It is absolutely prohibited, at all units, to relate to any stakeholders,  publicity, advertising, or any other public material that contains any  mention, illustration or manifestation of discrimination of race, eth- nicity, gender, belief, religion, age, handicap or gender orientation.  The Code also prohibits and punishes any type of harassment, which  includes any act or verbal or physical attitude that implies humili- ation, embarrassment or threat to employees. Embraers actions  against discrimination and forced labor extend to the entire network  of national and foreign suppliers. . 118 annual report embraer 2011  Complaints of moral harassment were received through the Chan- nel for Reporting Misconduct and checked by internal processes that  involve the participation of the Ethics and Conduct Committee. Two  occurrences were evaluated and considered to have a basis, which re- sulted in applying disciplinary measures and a formal warning, as well  as dismissal for cause. ShAREhOlDERS  Executives and employees who have access to rel- evant information are bound by a Trading Policy for Embraers stocks,  for the purpose of ensuring the transparency of their management  and trading in benefit of shareholders and investors. This policy pro- vides rules and procedures, and establishes periods in which execu- tives and employees must abstain from doing any trading, in order to  avoid questioning of the undue use of privileged information. The Disclosure Policy followed by Embraer establishes the criteria  and the procedures for releasing information of interest to inves- tors, thus ensuring a widespread and transparent distribution of  information that is relevant to the market. The Company also re- leases manuals at General Assemblies that provide all the informa- tion needed by shareholders. 220 events provided  direct contact between Embraer and  analysts and investors Embraers Code of Ethics and Conduct reinforces the fact that the  relationship between shareholders and investors must be based on  precise, transparent and timely communication of information that  allows them to keep track of the Companys activities and assess its  performance and potential.  Besides releasing quarterly results to investors, analysts and the trade  press, the Investor Relations area provides institutional presentations  and takes part in national and international meetings, conferences  and roadshows. In 2011, the Company held and participated in some  220 events with direct contact with analysts and investors, mainly in  Brazil, the United States, and countries in Europe and Asia. Embraers institutional website and the Investor Relations site, which  was totally remodeled in December 2011, provide a wide variety of  information and news regarding the performance, products, gov- ernance and other subjects of interest, as well as quarterly results,  press releases and annual reports of Embraer. 119 socioenvironmental performance  Attachments  1 – CAlCulATION bASE 2011 Value (R$ thousand) 2010 Value (R$ thousand) Net revenue (NR) 8,466,553 8,231,283 Operational result (OR) 156,297 573,592 Gross payroll (GPR) 1,800,163 1,649,730 2 – INTERNAl SOCIAl INDICATORS   Value  (R$ thousand) % over GPR % over NR Value  (R$ thousand) % over GPR % over NR Meals 23,412 1.30% 0.28% 20,475 1.24% 0.25% Mandatory social charges 480,410 26.69% 5.67% 444,839 26.96% 5.40% Supplementary retirement 45,223 2.51% 0.53% 38,324 2.32% 0.47% Health 73,554 4.09% 0.87% 84,895 5.15% 1.03% Labor health and safety 19,310 1.07% 0.23% 9,346 0.57% 0.11% Education 280 0.02% 0.00% 246 0.01% 0.00% Culture 219 0.01% 0.00% 143 0.01% 0.00% Professional training and development 19,471 1.08% 0.23% 15,784 0.96% 0.19% Childcare or childcare stipend 383 0.02% 0.00% 342 0.02% 0.00% Profit-sharing 75,503 4.19% 0.89% 79,162 4.80% 0.96% Others  36,994 2.06% 0.44% 29,891 1.81% 0.36% Total – Internal social indicators 774,759 43.04% 9.15% 723,447 43.85% 8.79% 3 – ExTERNAl SOCIAl INDICATORS      Value  (R$ thousand) % over OR % over NR Value  (R$ thousand) % over OR % over NR Education 14,130 9.04% 0.17% 11,272 1.97% 0.14% Culture 750 0.48% 0.01% 806 0.14% 0.01% Fight against hunger and food security 0 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% Others 355 0.23% 0.00% 260 0.05% 0.00% Total contribution to society 15,235 9.75% 0.18% 12,338 2.15% 0.15% Taxes (excluding social charges) 156,822 100.34% 1.85% 112,822 19.67% 1.37% Total – External social indicators 172,057 110.08% 2.03% 125,160 21.82% 1.52% 4 – ENvIRONMENTAl INDICATORS  gRI EN30 Value  (R$ thousand) % over OR % over NR Value  (R$ thousand) % over OR % over NR Investment related to company production/operation 9,735 6.23% 0.11% 8,956 1.56% 0.11% Investment in external programs and/or projects 29 0.02% 0.00% 92 0.02% 0.00% Total environmental investment 9,764 6.25% 0.12% 9,048 1.58% 0.11% Regarding the definition of annual goals to reduce waste, the  general consumption for production/operation and increase  efficiency in utilization of natural resources, the company: (  ) does not have goals     (  ) meets from 51% to 75% (  ) meets from 0% to 50% (x) meets from 76% to 100% (  ) does not have goals    (  ) meets from 51% to 75% (x) meets from 0% to 50% (  ) meets from 76% to 100% Social Performance  122 annual report embraer 2011  5 – STAff INDICATORS 2011 2010 No. of employees at the end of the period 15,989 16,133 No. of new hires in the period 914 1,028 No. of outsourced employees 2,594 2,430 No. of interns 241 169 No. of employees over 45 years old 2,609 2,441 No. of women working at the company 2,124 2,094 % of management positions held by women 9.75% 8.16% No. of handicapped or special-needs employees 733 740 6 – RElEvANT CORpORATE CITIzENShIp INfORMATION 2011 Goals 2012 Ratio of highest to lowest salary at the company 65 Does not have goal Total on-the-job accidents 312 156 The social and environmental projects implemented by the  company were decided upon by: (  ) directors (x) directors and management (  ) all staff (  ) directors (x) directors and management (  ) all staff The risk and security standards in the workplace were   decided upon by: (  ) directors and management (  ) all staff (x) all staff + CIPA (  ) directors and management (  ) all staff (x) all staff + CIPA With regard to labor unions, right for collective bargaining  and internal representation of workers, the company: (  ) does not get involved (  ) follows ILO rules (x) encourages and follows ILO (  ) does not get involved (  ) follows ILO rules (x) encourages and follows ILO Supplementary pension benefits contemplate: (  ) directors (  ) directors and management (x) all staff (  ) directors (  ) directors and management (x) all staff Profit-sharing contemplates: (  ) directors (  ) directors and management (x) all staff (  ) directors (  ) directors and management (x) all staff Regarding the selection of suppliers, the same ethical and  social and environmental responsibility standards adopted  by the company: (  ) are not considered (x) are suggested (  ) are required (  ) are not considered (x) are suggested (  ) are required Regarding the participation of employees in volunteer  activities, the company: (  ) does not get involved (  ) supports (x) organizes and encourages (  ) does not get involved (  ) supports (x) organizes and encourages TOTAl vAluE ADDED fOR DISTRIbuTION (R$ ThOuSAND) In 2011: 2,157 In 2010: 2,398 Distribution of Value Added (DVA): 21.83% government          52.14% employees 10.48% shareholders        18.79% third parties -3.24% retained 19.23% government          48.26% employees 6.49% shareholders            8.59% third parties 17.43% retained Indicators  123 attachments  pROfIlE 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS  AR Pages Global Compact 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to  the organization and its strategy. 8 Declaration of con- tinuous support in  the Message of the  President & CEO  1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 8, 35 and 44 - 2. ORGANIzATIONAL PROFILE AR Pages Global Compact 2.1 Name of the organization. 7 and 16 - 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 45, 49, 54, 58 and 60 - 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and  joint ventures. 17 and 26 - 2.4 Location of organizations headquarters. 16 - 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 16, 17 and 19 - 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 16 - 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 16, 17 and 18 - 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 1 and 26 - 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including. 9, 17 and 54 - 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 21 - 3. REPORT PARAMETERS AR Pages Global Compact 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 7 - 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 7 - 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 7 - 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 7 - 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: a) determining materiality; b) prioritizing topics within the  report; and c) identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 7 and 32 - 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 7 - 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 7 - 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 7 - 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 7 - 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 7 - 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 7 - 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the report. 124 - 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Embraer is adapting to conducting audits of its  socioenvironmental information. - GRI Index gri 3.12 124 annual report embraer 2011  4. GOvERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT AR Pages Global Compact 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 29 - 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organizations management and the reasons for this arrangement). 29 - 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 29 - 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 24, 26, 29, 39 and 40 - 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers and executives (including  departure arrangements), and the Organizations performance (including social and environmental performance). 29 - 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 26 - 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for  guiding the Organizations strategy on economic, environmental and social topics. 26  - 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 25 and 39 Declaration of com- mitment and disclo- sure to employees 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organizations identification and management of  economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or  compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 29 - 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance bodys own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance.  29 - 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 30, 33, 34 and 35 7 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the  organization subscribes or endorses. 40 Declaration of com- mitment and disclo- sure to employees 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations  in which the organization: a) has positions in governance bodies; b) participates in projects or committees; c)  provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; and d) views membership as strategic. 40 Declaration of com- mitment and disclo- sure to employees 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Embraer began a structured process of engaging  stakeholders in 2011. Among the groups consulted  are employees, managers, suppliers, experts from  the aviation sector, shareholders, investors, and  customers. - 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Embraer began a structured process of engaging  stakeholders in 2011. Among the groups consulted  are employees, managers, suppliers, experts from  the aviation sector, shareholders, investors, and  customers. - 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. This initial process was conducted in meetings  with stakeholders, resulting in a total of 40 in- terviews. The subjects brought up are considered  to be relevant for conducting Embraers business. Sharing the COP  with the Companys  stakeholders  4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. The main topics arising from this process were:  climate change; attracting, developing and retaining  labor; managing the life cycle of products; local  economic development; managing the value chain;  human and labor rights; engaging public authorities;  new solutions for the challenges of sustainability;  communication and transparency; reference in inno- vation and new technologies; product emissions; lo- cal content; product safety; noise, health and safety;  managing natural resources and wastes; ethics and  corporate governance; privacy and information  security; preparing for disaster situations. - 125 attachments  ECONOMIC pERfORMANCE INDICATORS DiSClOSurE Of MANAGEMENT APPrOACh 44 and 45 - Aspect: Economic Performance AR Pages Global Compact CORE EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. 1, 74 and 82 - CORE EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organizations activities due to climate change. 39 and 91 7 and 8 CORE EC3 Coverage of the organizations defined benefit plan obligations. 106 - Aspect: Market Presence AR Pages Global Compact ADD EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation.  104 6 CORE EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. 67 and 118 - CORE EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. 112 6 Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts AR Pages Global Compact CORE EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement. 114 - ADD EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts.  113 - ENvIRONMENTAl pERfORMANCE INDICATORS DiSClOSurE Of MANAGEMENT APPrOACh 88, 89 and 91 - Aspect: Energy AR Pages Global Compact CORE EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source.  94 8 ADD EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements.  95  8 and 9 ADD EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives.  89 8 and 9 ADD EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved.  89 8 and 9 Aspect: Water AR Pages Global Compact CORE EN8 Total water withdrawal, by source. 94 8 ADD EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused.  95 8 and 9 126 annual report embraer 2011  Aspect: Biodiversity AR Pages Global Compact CORE EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 99 8 CORE EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 99 8 ADD EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 99 8 ADD EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. 99 8 Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste AR Pages Global Compact CORE EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, by weight. 96 - CORE EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions, by weight. 96 - ADD EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 96 8 and 9 CORE EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances, by weight. 96 8 CORE EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions, by type and weight. 99 8 CORE EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 97 8 CORE EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 97 8 ADD EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and vIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. 97 - ADD EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organizations discharges of water and runoff. 97 8 Aspect: Products and Services AR Pages Global Compact CORE EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 91, 92 and 94 8 and 9 Aspect : Overall AR Pages Global Compact ADD EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments, by type. 122 8 127 attachments  lAbOR pRACTICES AND DECENT WORk pERfORMANCE INDICATORS  DiSClOSurE Of MANAGEMENT APPrOACh 100 and 101 - Aspect: Employment AR Pages Global Compact CORE La1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. 101 and 102 - CORE La2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 104 6 Aspect: Labor/Management Relations AR Pages Global Compact CORE La4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 113 1 and 3 Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety AR Pages Global Compact CORE La6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety  committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. 107 - CORE La7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. 63 - CORE La8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. 107 - ADD La9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 113 - Aspect: Training and Education AR Pages Global Compact CORE La10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 111 - ADD La11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of  employees and assist them in managing career endings. 112 - ADD La12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 112 - Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity AR Pages Global Compact CORE La13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to  gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 103 1 and 6 huMAN RIghTS pERfORMANCE INDICATORS   DiSClOSurE Of MANAGEMENT APPrOACh 113 and 118 - Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices AR Pages Global Compact CORE HR1  Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses  incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. 118 1, 4, 5 and 6 CORE HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. 118 1, 4, 5 and 6 Aspect: Non-discrimination AR Pages Global Compact CORE HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. in 2011, Embraer recorded  no cases of discrimination  of any type, and there was  no record of forced labor  at the units in Brazil or  abroad. 1 and 6 128 annual report embraer 2011  Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Barg aining AR Pages Global Compact CORE HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and  collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 113  1 and 3 Aspect: Child Labor AR Pages Global Compact CORE HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor,  and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. 113 1 and 5 Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor AR Pages Global Compact CORE HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory  labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. 113 1, 2 and 4 SOCIETy pERfORMANCE INDICATORS DiSClOSurE Of MANAGEMENT APPrOACh 113 and 114 - Aspect: Local Communities AR Pages Global Compact CORE so1 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts  of operations on communities, including entering, operating and exiting. 113  1 Aspect: Corruption AR Pages Global Compact CORE so2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption.  39 and 40 10 CORE so3 Percentage of employees trained in organizations anti-corruption policies and procedures. 39 10 Aspect : Public Policy AR Pages Global Compact CORE so5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 91 and 92 10 pRODuCT RESpONSIbIlITy pERfORMANCE INDICATORS  DiSClOSurE Of MANAGEMENT APPrOACh 38, 39, 42 and 43 - Aspect: Customer Health and Safety AR Pages Global Compact CORE pR1  Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for  improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. 62, 63 and 70 - ADD pR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. 68 - Aspect : Product and Service Labeling AR Pages Global Compact CORE pR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant  products and services subject to such information requirements. 68 and 89 8 ADD pR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer  satisfaction. 67 - 129 attachments  uNITED STATES Of AMERICA embraer – Fort lauderdale Embraer Aircraft Holding Embraer Services Embraer Aircraft Customer Services  Embraer Executive Jets 276 SW 34th Street Fort Lauderdale, FL 33315 – U.S. Phone: +1 954-359-3700 embraer – naSHville  Embraer Aircraft Maintenance Services 10 Airways Blvd. Nashville, TN 37217 – U.S. Phone: +1 615-367-2100 embraer – melbourne  Embraer Executive Aircraft Embraer Engineering Technology Center USA 1205 General Aviation Drive Melbourne, FL 32935 – U.S. Phone: +1 321-426-2621 embraer – windSor loCkS Embraer Executive Jets 41 Perimeter Road  Windsor Locks, CT 06096 – U.S. Phone: +1 860-804-4300 embraer – meSa Embraer Executive Jets 5643 S. Avery Circle Mesa, Az 85212 – U.S. Phone: +1 480-735-0200 embraer – dallaS Embraer Customer Training Services 2929 W. Airfield Dr. Dallas Fort Worth Airport, TX 75261 – U.S. Phone: +1 972-456-8000  fRANCE embraer – villepinte Embraer Aviation Europe Bat. Eddington Paris Nord II – 33, Rue des vanesses BP 58294 villepinte – 95958 Roissy CDG Cedex – France Phone: +33 1 49 38 44 00 embraer – le bourget Embraer Aviation International Le Bourget Airport zone Aviation dAffaires 93350 Le Bourget Cedex – France Phone: +33 (1) 49 38 44 00 uNITED kINgDOM embraer – FarnborougH Embraer Executive Jets Farnborough Airport  Farnborough, Hampshire United Kingdom – GU146XA Phone: + 44 (0) 1252 379270 pORTugAl ogma – indStria aeronutiCa  de portugal S.a. – alverCa 2615 – 173 – Alverca – Portugal Phone: +351 (21) 957-1000/957-9000 embraer portugal eStruturaS metliCaS S.a. – vora Praa de Sertorio, s/nr Gabinete de Apoio da Presidncia vora, Lisboa – 7004-506 – Portugal 131 corporate information  ChINA embraer – beijing Suite 1806, Tower 2, China Central Place Office Building, 79, Jianguo Road Chaoyang District – Beijing 100025 Peoples Republic of China Phone: +86 10 6598-9988 Harbin embraer airCraFt induStry – Harbin 15 Youxie St. Pingfang, Harbin – 150066 Peoples Republic of China Phone: +86 451 5390-8988 SINgApORE embraer – Singapore 391B Orchard Road # 24-02 Ngee Ann City – Tower B – 38874 – Singapore Phone: +65 6734-4321 subsIDIarIes anD aFFIlIaTes orbiSat da amaznia S.a. – So joS doS CampoS Av. Shishima Hifumi, 2911 – 1st floor – Room 104 – Urbanova – Parque  Tecnolgico Postal code: 12244-000 – So Jos dos Campos, SP – Brazil Phone: +55 (12) 3202-2700 ateCH  - So paulo Rua do Rocio, 313 – 2nd floor – vila Olmpia  Postal code: 04552-000 – So Paulo, SP – Brazil  Phone: +55 (11) 3040-7320 Harpia - braSlia SHS quadra 06, cj. A, bloco C, 13 pavimento  Edifcio Brasil 21 Business Center – Asa Sul Postal code: 70316-109 – Braslia, DF – Brazil shareholDer InForMaTIon DEpOSITARy bANkS brazil – banCo ita S.a. Rua Boa vista, 176 – 1 subsolo Postal code: 01014-001 – So Paulo, SP – Brazil Phone: +55 (11) 3247-3138/3247-3139 united StateS oF ameriCa – jp morgan 60 Wall Street, 36th floor 10260-006 – New York, NY – U.S. Phone: +1 212-623-0875 INDEpENDENT AuDITORS priCewaterHouSeCooperS (until 3/31/2012) Rua Euclides Miragaia, 433 – cjs. 301 e 304 Postal code: 12245-550 – So Jos dos Campos, SP – Brazil Phone: +55 (12) 3913-4505 www.pwc.com/br INvESTOR RElATIONS DEpARTMENT Av. Brigadeiro Faria Lima, 2.170 Postal code: 12227-901 – So Jos dos Campos, SP – Brazil BRAzIL – Andr Gaia, Caio Pinez, Cludio Massuda, Juliana villari- nho and Paulo Ferreira: (12) 3927-4404 U.S. – Luciano Froes: +1 954-359-3492  investor.relations@embraer.com.br Follow Embraers IR on Twitter: @RIEmbraer publICATIONS AND INfORMATION Quarterly results, press releases and annual reports are availa- ble from the Department of Investor Relations and on the website  ri.embraer.com 132 annual report embraer 2011  Credits coorDInaTIon Executive vice Presidency, Finance and Investor Relations vice Presidency, Institutional Relations conTenT consulTInG, WrITInG, DesIGn anD GraPhIcs layouT TheMediaGroup www.mediagroup.com.br PhoTos Embraer Picture Collection Paulo Fridman 133 credits  134 annual report embraer 2011