United nations   global compact  commUnication on  pRogRess 2011 investing in  the fUtURe  intRodUction 1   Statement of support from Julian Roberts, Group Chief Executive 2  Our business at a glance 4  Our approach to responsible business oUR pRogRess   5  Human rights 6  Labour 7  Environment 8  Anti-corruption  looking ahead 9  Looking ahead 9  Useful links contact and feedback If you would like to find out more information, have any questions,   or would like to provide any additional feedback on this  Communication on Progress please email: Helen Wilson, Head of Responsible Business  responsiblebusiness@omg.co.uk Old Mutual is an international   long-term savings, protection   and investment Group  statement of sUppoRt   fRom JUlian RobeRts,   ceo of old mUtUal Throughout 2011, we all witnessed or were impacted  by large scale natural disasters, escalating social  unrest in a number of countries, the continued  international debate about the role of financial  services, and the protests of the Occupy movement.  These all served to reinforce the fact that we live in a  world where news travels fast, and where events on  one side of the globe can have a major impact  elsewhere. Through our position as an international  long-term savings, investment and protection  Group, I believe Old Mutual can play a positive and  stabilising role in global society, I am proud that we  are responding to global trends to create a long- term, responsible and transparent business to  create positive impact.  We find the Global Compact a useful framework  forhelping us deliver that positive role in society.  TheGlobal Compacts principles have an influence  onhow we conduct our business day to day;  principlesof responsibility which have been important  to us sinceour formation over 165 years ago. In 2011  we made good progress to responsible business  andin further embedding the principles that form the  Compact. I believe our greatest achievement has been  identifying and working with networks and individuals  across the Old Mutual Group to share our Responsible  Business strategy and deliver it consistently. Taking into  account the different geographies in which we operate  and markets we serve, has helped us focus on five  keyissues where we have invested time and resources  tocreate momentum and accountability across  theGroup.  Our five key issues    Responsible investment    Responsible customer service    Responsible to our employees    Responsible to our communities    Responsible environmental management Key progress in 2011    Creating a framework for responsible decision  making in our owned and managed investments    Better understanding the needs and aspirations   of our customers to ensure products and services  appropriately meet these    Working with our employees to create a better  culture that will deliver greater success for them  and the business    Continuing to invest in helping build stronger   and sustainable communities     Driving down our carbon emissions across the Group.   I know that there is always more to do, and more to  learn. New challenges will arise that will cause us   at Old Mutual to reassess our approach to running   our business in a responsible manner. That is why we  choose to be an active member of the Global Compact;  to share our progress and challenges and to learn from  other members. Our 2011 Communication on Progress  provides a brief summary of our activity against the  Global Compact principles over the last year. For further  details, you can access other Old Mutual publications  that detail our progress and plans including our 2011  Responsible Business Report.  Julian Roberts Group Chief Executive   Old Mutual plc  1   Communication on Progress 2011  4 4 oUR bUsiness   at a glance Below is a high-level summary  oftheGroup and our four  principalbusiness units. Adjusted operating profit   (AOP) 2011 1,515m 2010: 1,371m Funds under management   (FUM) 2011 267.2bn 2010: 295.2bn Number employed1 2011 57,430 2010: 55,730 Adjusted operating profit (AOP) 2011 793m 2010: 787m Funds under management   (FUM) 2011 108.5bn 2010: 117.9bn Number employed 2011 22,851 2010: 21,729 Below is a high-level summary  oftheGroup and our four  principalbusiness units. We provide innovative life  assurance-based solutions  which address both protection  and retirement savings needs. Contribution to Group 60% 40.6% AOP2 FUM3 Old Mutual is an international  long-term savings, protection  and investmentGroup. 1  Includes Group Head Office, Bermuda, Nordic and USLife. 2  % of total operating business units AOP after tax andnon-controlling interests. 3 % of FUM in Group core operations. Primary locations     LTS – Southern Africa, Europe, Colombia,  Mexico, India and China     US Asset Management – US     Banking – Southern Africa     Short-term insurance – Southern Africa Responsible business highlights    Good progress in our approach to integrating  responsible investment principles    Implemented a new customer loyalty measure  to help us continuously improve our  customerservice    Positive results from our employee  culturesurvey    Invested 11.6 million in our communities    Well on track to deliver our 2020 target to  reduce carbon emissions Our brands long-teRm savings (lts) gRoUp   Old Mutual plc  2   Communication on Progress 2011  Adjusted operating profit (AOP) 2011 67m 2010: 72m Funds under management   (FUM) 2011 148.8bn 2010: 166.4m Number employed 2011 1,564 2010: 1,537 Adjusted operating profit (AOP) 2011 755m 2010: 601m Core tier 1 ratio 11.0% 2010: 10.1% Number employed 2011 28,494 2010: 27,525 Adjusted operating profit (AOP) 2011 89m 2010: 103m Underwriting margin 5.0% 2010: 7.6% Number employed 2011 2,390 2010: 2,222 BARROW, HANLEY, MEWHINNEY & STRAUSS, LLC 4 4 4 We aim to grow our customers  savings and wealth, whether  through active and direct asset  management or the selection of  funds and managers for  customers to invest in. We have a majority  shareholding in Nedbank,   one of South Africas leading  banks, which also has   banking interests in other  countries in Southern Africa. We provide short-term  insurance solutions in   Southern Africa through   Mutual & Federal. Contribution to Group 55.7% 6% AOP2 FUM3   Contribution to Group 28% 3.6% AOP2 FUM3 Contribution to Group 6% 0.1% AOP2 FUM3 Our brand Our brands Us asset management banking shoRt-teRm insURance Some of our brands oUR bUsiness   at a glance CONTINUED   Old Mutual plc  3   Communication on Progress 2011  oUR appRoach to   Responsible bUsiness We have outlined below how we conduct our  business responsibly by:    Putting the right processes and policies in place    Sharing information with our employees and  otherstakeholders    Encouraging feedback    Building ownership for responsible business in  everyones role. Our governance  At Group level, Don Schneider (Group Human  Resources Director and Executive Committee  Member) chairs our Responsible Business  Committee which has representatives from the  different business functions. The Committees role is  to champion and challenge our responsible business  approach and to help embed it in all we do. The Chair  is also responsible for reporting to the Executive  Committee on responsible business plans and  achievements, and on working with the rest of the  Executive team to make sure they lead effectively on  our Responsible Business strategy. Each strand of our Responsible Business strategy  has governance structures in place to ensure  accountability for decisions made and actions taken.  Each part of the Group has its own governance  structures for responsible business reporting to, and  working closely with the Group structures. The CEO  of each business is accountable for compliance with  our Group Operating Model, which includes  responsible business practice.  Our processes Measuring and sharing our progress is an important  way for us to track performance and highlight where  additional effort may be required. We have  frameworks in place to monitor our progress and  keep responsible business high on everyones  agendas. We also have metrics in place to track our  progress, an area we are continuing to develop. Our employees In 2011 we engaged with each of our businesses to  understand what they were already doing – and what  still needed to be done – to make sure we had a  common understanding of responsible business.  Through a series of networks and responsible  business practitioners, there are individuals at a  senior level in each business driving forward activity.  We see opportunities to expand this senior level  network. They are supported by employees who help  implement changes and work with the wider  employee base to embed responsible business  practice into everyday business activity. As well as  various initiatives held throughout the year such as  community volunteering and environmental campaigns,  our aim is for everyone at Old Mutual to behave  responsibly in their everyday behaviours and decisions. Our future For 2012, we have refined our Responsible Business  strategy so that it is clearer and better aligned to our  overall business strategic priorities. The five key focus  areas of our approach to responsible business are:  responsible investment, responsible customer service,  responsible to our employees, responsible to our  communities and responsible environmental  management. We will work with our businesses to  deliver this strategy with an added focus on improving  the way we report our progress so that there is greater  transparency on our challenges and achievements. At the heart of how we address  theCompacts Ten Principles is our  approach to responsible business.   Old Mutual plc  4   Communication on Progress 2011  oUR pRogRess UN Global Compact Principle 1  Businesses should support and respect   the protection of internationally proclaimed  humanrights UN Global Compact Principle 2  Businesses should make sure that they   are not complicit in human rights abuses Old Mutuals position  Throughout our operations Old Mutual is committed to raising  awareness of human rights and labour standards, and ensuring  they are respected in all our activities.  Our relations with employees and other stakeholders are based on  respect for the individual. We manage our engagement with all our  stakeholders in accordance with the Groups core values: Pushing  beyond boundaries, Accountability, Respect and Integrity. Systems and Processes Any suspected breach of human rights is reported through  appropriate channels, including the Human Resources,  Responsible Business and/or Risk functions, to the Audit and Risk  Committees that are in place around the Group, with escalation to  the Group Audit and Risk Committee where warranted.  It is standard practice that the owners of all Old Mutual Group  policies, with the support of their business unit representatives,  are tasked to track implementation and compliance. It is their  responsibility to escalate material instances of non-compliance   with the Group policies with the Group Governance function.  Our Code of Conduct and Group Operating Model are core to  ensuring responsible business practices are embedded across  the Group.  Our Group Code of Conduct contains a number of specific  statements that address the principles relating to human rights in  the Global Compact. In our Responsible Business Policy, which   is part of our Group Operating Model, we explicitly reference human  rights and the responsibilities of all our employees towards others.  At Group level we have policies that encourage engagement   with our communities. At local level there is flexibility to focus   on the issues that are most appropriate to that business.  2011 highlights on progress In 2011 we started the process of revisiting a number of our key  responsible business processes and governance tools. This  included:     Starting a revision of our Responsible Business Policy to align  with new strategy and other third party frameworks including  the Global Compact     Revising our Code of Conduct which we plan to embed as our  fundamental statement of the Groups ethics. In 2011, we also heavily invested in improving our approach to  responsible investment to get a better understanding of how our  investments can impact social issues suchas human rights:      Old Mutual continued its support of external codes and  principles raising the profile of environmental, social and good  governance criteria in investment decision making     In line with the commitments of the Code for Responsible  Investing in South Africa (CRISA), we have made public the   Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa (OMIGSA) guidelines  on responsible investment and ownership processes. Our support for our local communities is an active expression of  some of the work we do to promote the principles of human rights  where we operate. In 2011 we invested 11.6 million in community  projects across the world including:    Old Mutual South Africa (OMSA) ran the Learners Scholarship  Programme giving promising students from disadvantaged  backgrounds schooling at top mathematics schools     Mutual & Federal worked with the South African Insurance  Association and the Financial Sector Charter on programmes  such as the Managing Your Money initiative to help improve  mathematical literacy in South African schools     Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa (OMIGSA) launched  a nationwide scholarship initiative, Imfundo Trust, to address the  shortage of black investment professionals     Over 1,000 Nedbank employees volunteered for Nedbanks  Caring for our Communities education programme     Group Head Office continued to support financial education in  London through the Young Enterprise Scheme, reaching over  4,000 young people    Old Mutual Namibia helped establish The Old Mutual Womens  Micro-Business Project, providing women with financial and  business training and access to interest-free loans     Old Mutual Foundation in South Africa grew its Legends  Programme, supporting the development and sustainability of  small black-owned businesses and community projects, from  10 projects in 2009 to 67 projects in 2011. 1. Human rights   Old Mutual plc  5   Communication on Progress 2011 For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 9  oUR pRogRess CONTINUED Old Mutuals position  We uphold the principle of the freedom of association and the  effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, where  allowed by the law. We do not tolerate forced labour or child labour. We are committed to increasing diversity throughout the Group:   the different backgrounds, experiences and perspectives of our  employees are a great asset. Our policies ensure that no  employee receives less favourable treatment on grounds of their  gender, age, sexual orientation, race, disability, religion or any  other factor unrelated to the requirements of their position. In  southern Africa, recognising the unique circumstances, we  balance these principles against our commitment to address  employment equity and transformation issues. Systems and Processes We have a detailed Human Resource Risk Management Group  Policy in place that governs the management of labour standards  in relation to our employees. This policy sets out the mandatory  requirements in terms of policy and practice that all business units  must meet. The policy covers employee relations and  employment, diversity, selection and appointment, remuneration  and performance management, talent management &  organisational development, and employee welfare.  CEOs from each business unit are required to sign a letter of  Representation annually to confirm they and their employees have  complied with the Group Policy over the last year and indicate  where any issues have arisen. This is supported by regular internal  audit checks that take place regularly to confirm compliance to  this and other Group Policies. We also spend time carefully selecting and working with our suppliers  to ensure they reflect the values we see as important in relation to  labour standards. This work is underpinned by internal governance  bodies that promote and facilitate good labour practices. We also  provide on-going training of employees to ensure all people  responsible for procurement are aware of the relevant requirements.  2011 highlights on progress Broadening horizons to improve our culture In 2011 we delivered a range of activities across the Group to  helpshare understanding and experience across the different  businesses. These included:     We launched our International Talent Programme which equips  our emerging leaders with skills for global leadership including  cross-cultural management skills     In partnership with the University of Cape Town, Old Mutual  Emerging Markets (OMEM) launched the Cross Boundary  Programme, designed to improve cultural awareness among  our future senior managers     OMEM ran a Connect our World event to increase awareness  of the opportunities for working in different locations. Maintaining strong employee relations and a healthy workplace Across the Group we have continued to build better working  conditions for our employees. For example in 2011:    The proportion of Old Mutual South Africas employees who are  union members grew from 35% of the total workforce last year  to 38% this year (43% of the permanent workforce). OMSA lost  zero days to industrial action in 2011, maintaining our record  from previous years     In Swaziland we established a Wellness Committee to  co-ordinate support for the physical, social and financial  wellbeing of employees. Building our diversity We continued to increase the diversity in a range of areas, with a  strong focus on increasing the number of women within the  business and increase the proportion in leadership positions.   For example this year:    Employees in the UK launched a Womens Network, open   to all, to share experiences and provide insight to the leadership    Women hold 13% of senior management positions within   the Group    We have a second female member on the Group Board   of Directors     In the UK, we are part of the FTSE 100 Cross-Company  Mentoring Programme which focuses on equipping   talented women to be credible candidates for senior   roles in UK businesses    We submitted a response to the Davies Report on Women on  Boards in September 2011 outlining our commitment to increase  the number of women on our Group Board of Directors. External recognition This year we have been recognised by a number of external  organisations for our achievements, including:    Old Mutual South Africa and Mutual & Federal appeared  ontheBest Employers list compiled by the Corporate  ResearchFoundation    Old Mutual South Africa and Nedbank maintained level 2 status  and Mutual & Federal level 3 status as Broad-Based Black  Economic Empowerment contributors. 2. Labour UN Global Compact Principle 3  Businesses should uphold the freedom of   association and the effective recognition   of the right to collective bargaining UN Global Compact Principle 4  Businesses should uphold the elimination   of all forms of forced and compulsory labour UN Global Compact Principle 5  Businesses should uphold the effective abolition   of child labour UN Global Compact Principle 6  Businesses should uphold the elimination   of discrimination in respect of employment   and occupation   Old Mutual plc  6   Communication on Progress 2011 For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 9  oUR pRogRess CONTINUED Old Mutuals position  While the nature of our business means that our environmental  impacts are less extensive than some other industries, we are  nonetheless very aware of our footprint and know that we can  continue to improve our operations and behaviours to minimise  any negative impacts. At the same time, we look for innovative  ways of contributing positively to the environment and making  sure the way we do business reflects emerging thinking on best  environmental practices. As an investor we also invest in green technologies and promote  products and services that allow our clients to have greater  environmental responsibility.  Systems and Processes We approach our environmental management through effective  facilities and property management, aligned with employee  engagement and encouraging them to take ownership of their   own environmental footprints. We monitor, manage and reduce   our impacts as far as possible – from waste production, water   and paper consumption and energy consumption in our buildings  to how we travel to our meetings.  At the start of 2010, we developed a Group Climate Change  Strategy to help us reduce our climate change impacts and  improve our energy efficiency. Within this strategy we set  ourselves the target of reducing Old Mutuals carbon emissions by  20% by 2020. We have 12 Environment Taskforces to implement  our Climate Change Strategy, acting as a focal point in helping  deliver our target and build on the multitude of activity already  going on around the Group.  One of the greatest climate change risks to our business is through  the investments we hold and the policies we underwrite. While we  have a number of socially responsible investment and ethical funds  that allow our customers to invest in specific environmental  projects, our group-wide aim is to include environmental, social and  ethical criteria into all our investment making decisions. 2011 highlights on progress Reducing our environmental footprint In 2011 we continued to make progress in reducing our  environmental footprint. Highlights include:    Reduced overall carbon dioxide emissions by 16% group-wide     Old Mutual appeared in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership  Index for the third consecutive year, increasing our score and  being ranked seventh for the Financial Services sector     In our investment property portfolio, we decreased our carbon  emissions by 10% to 0.21 tonnes of CO2e per square metre  (2010: 0.23 tonnes CO2e/m2)    We decreased our water consumption by 28% from 4.5 million  m3 to 3.3 million m3 in 2011. The biggest reduction occurred in  South Africa where our water consumption was reduced  by31%    Unfortunately we increased our waste to landfill from 2010 by  10%. However, some of this increase has resulted from more   of our businesses reporting this Key Performance Indicator   (KPI) in 2011. A number of our businesses, including Nedbank  and our operations in the UK, have significantly reduced   waste consumption    Sharing of best practice between Wealth Management   and our South African businesses on how to integrate   the social, environmental and governance factors into   Requests for Procurement. Promoting greater environmental responsibility  We also continued to work to promote greater environmental  responsibility through support of others and investment of   our own and our clients funds. Highlights include:     Old Mutual Property continued to work closely with the Green  Building Council of South Africa and helped develop an  open-access toolkit on green leases which seeks to promote  and encourage environmentally sustainable practices in the   property industry    A consortium of Old Mutual South Africa and Macquarie Capital  secured a deal to start an infrastructure project that will build a  300-megawatt wind farm in the Eastern Cape of South Africa     Nedbank launched a green exchange-traded fund on   the Johannesburg Stock Exchange ranking South Africas   top-20 listed companies in terms of sustainability     We had over 2.8 billion funds under management in  specifically social, environmental and transformation related  investments – including OMIGSAs Futuregrowth fund and the  African Infrastructure Investment Managers fund. 3. Environment UN Global Compact Principle 7  Businesses should support a precautionary   approach to environmental challenges UN Global Compact Principle 8  Businesses should undertake initiatives to   promote greater environmental responsibility UN Global Compact Principle 9  Businesses encourage the development and  diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies   Old Mutual plc  7   Communication on Progress 2011 For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 9  oUR pRogRess CONTINUED UN Global Compact Principle 10  Businesses should work against corruption   in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Old Mutuals position  Bribery and corrupt business practices create unfair markets,  erode public trust and stifle long-term economic development –  these are contrary to Old Mutuals values. We are committed to  ethical and legal business conduct in all the countries where we  operate. Systems and Processes The Business Protection team at Group Head Office oversees the  implementation of our financial crime prevention policies across  the Group. This team reports to the Group Executive, Board Risk  and Group Audit Committees. Major issues are escalated and  dealt with as they arise, while less serious issues are reported and  analysed quarterly. All our work is underpinned by regular contact  with the business units. Our Group Code of Conduct helps our employees clearly  understand the ethical standards we all apply when interacting   with customers and other stakeholders.  We work closely with regulators, law enforcement agencies and  trade associations to share good practice both inside and outside  the Group. By promoting better education and awareness of  issues connected with financial crime we also help promote a  more accountable society that is able to combat other anti-social  activities that are often supported by gains from financial crime. We have a Group anti-bribery and corruption policy in place.   All business units are required to follow the requirements of   this policy and CEOs are required to attest annually in relation   to compliance with this policy. We have skilled and experienced Forensics teams in our major  businesses that have responsibility for overseeing the policy and for  investigating any allegations of bribery that involve our employees. We also have whistleblowing arrangements in our businesses that  facilitate employees (and in some businesses, members of the  public) raising issues anonymously. Such issues would include  instances of bribery or corruption. 2011 highlights on progress Tackling corruption in all its forms requires having the right  systems in place, and also having the right culture within the  organisation. We also work with other organisations to create  positive networks to tackle corruption. In 2011 we continued to  make progress in a number of these areas. Highlights include:    We updated our Code of Conduct to take account of the  Bribery Act 2010 in the UK, and to make it more  understandable and accessible to employees as this legislation  affects all ofour operations throughout the world     We conducted our second bribery risk assessment across   all our businesses with sign off by CEOs or senior executives     Old Mutual South Africa (OMSA) and Nedbank started to  implement monitoring systems to help identify internal fraud    The Group continues to run an annual financial crime   conference for business unit experts to share their knowledge  and experiences. In 2011 this conference brought together  17different speakers including four from external organisations    Nedbank ran an anti-bribery campaign in partnership with   the banks ethics team which included employee workshops    Retail Europe implemented new anti-money laundering   software improving its ability to check for politically   exposed individuals and financial sanctions     Mutual & Federal used external advice to investigate   and prosecute fraud with local authorities    Nedbank shared intelligence with other major South African  banks in relation to criminal activities to improve the banking  industrys capacity to fight fraud     Mutual & Federal continued to participate in initiatives   overseen by the South African Insurance Fraud Bureau      Old Mutual Group Head Office assisted City of London   police with the arrest of two individuals involved in an   international fraud case. 4. Anti-corruption   Old Mutual plc  8   Communication on Progress 2011 For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 9  looking ahead  Old Mutual is committed to advancing  the Global Compacts principles and  broader UN goals within our business  and through working with others. Some of these commitments and plans include:      Become signatories of the UN-backed Principles for  Responsible Investment in 2012. We will continue to  integrate Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG)  criteria and decision-making into our investment decisions,  following these Principles and those of the Global  Compact with the aim to publicly report in 2014     Expand our Climate Change Strategy to take into account  our wider environmental impacts and management. We  will report more KPIs to demonstrate our progress and  share challenges     Disseminate our revised Code of Conduct across  theGroup     Encourage greater feedback from our stakeholders   on our reporting of our Responsible Business approach  and incorporate this into our future reporting and  Communications on Progress    Develop a set of group-wide community investment  principles so that we can better invest, measure and  work in partnership with the communities in which we  operate    Working together to build our cross boundary  understanding of risk and opportunity.   Old Mutual plc  9   Communication on Progress 2011 For further information Old Mutual Group values  http://www.oldmutual.com/about/ourValues.jsp  Old Mutual Group Code of Conduct  http://www.oldmutual.com/vpage.jsp?vpage_id=2726  Old Mutual Group Responsible Business Report 2011  http://rbreport2011.oldmutual.com/  Nedbank Integrated Report 2011  http://www.nedbankgroup.co.za/financial/Nedbank_ar2011/ default.asp  Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2011  http://www.oldmutual.co.za/about-us/sustainability-report.aspx  Nedbank United Nations Global Compact  Communications on Progress http://www.unglobalcompact.org/COPs/detail/16583  Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa – Guidelines on  Responsible Investment  http://www.oldmutual.co.za/documents/omigsa/ OMIGSAResponsibleInvestmentGuidelinesJan2012.pdf Old Mutual South Africa transformation  http://www.oldmutual.co.za/about-us/transformation.aspx Old Mutual Group and Nedbank CDP reports   https://www.cdproject.net/  FutureGrowth  http://www.futuregrowth.co.za/ Useful links