Emphasizing the Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources, to Contribute to Society through Our Business Activities CSR Report 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report  We aim to contribute to sustainable society through its business with our Mission  Statement Create social value while fulfilling stakeholders expectations. Our desire is to make contributions toward building a better society with a  recognition, at all times, of what society demands over the short and long terms. As globalization of our businesses advances and the our stakeholders grow more  diverse, we have prepared this CSR Report to communicate to all stakeholders  around the world our lasting philosophy and efforts. Our Philosophy for CSR CSR in General  Earned SAM Gold Class, Sector Leader, Sector Mover CSR rating  Earned selection to Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI)  Earned selection to FTSE4Good Global Indexes  Earned selection to the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment  Index  Ranked 104th in Nikkei NICES ranking system  Ranked 73rd in Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking  CSR Report 2011 awarded the award for excellence in the Environmental  Communication Awards sponsored by the Ministry of the Environment  and the Global Environmental Forum Environment  Ranked 43rd in Nikkei Environmental Management Ranking CS and Quality  Ranked 20th in Nikkei Quality Management Ranking Human Resources  Ranked 21st in Nikkei Ranking of Best Companies to Work For Evaluations Company Profile (As of March 31, 2012) Established: March 3, 1947 Capital: 100.002 billion yen Employees: 20,855 Domestic Subsidiaries: 115 Overseas Subsidiaries: 91 Affiliated Companies: 19 Net Sales: 965 billion yen Operating Income: 54.6 billion yen Net Income: 28.1 billion yen A waterfall on the upper reaches of the Father  Rhine, a river flowing through central Europe  from its source in the Swiss Alps. Sekisui Chemical Groups affiliate companies  in Europe include 10 operating companies, sales  companies, and other affiliates in the countries  of the Rhine watershed. Sekisui Europe B.V. Sekisui Alveo A.G. Sekisui SPR Europe G.m.b.H. Sekisui Chemical G.m.b.H. Sekisui Virotech G.m.b.H. Sekisui Diagnostics (UK) Limited Eslon B.V. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. Sekisui S-Lec B.V. American Diagnostica G.m.b.H. About cover photo 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012   The pages of this Report are structured in line with Sekisui  Chemical Groups concept of its Corporate Social Responsi- bility (CSR) in terms of Three Prominences — in the  Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources — along  with Three Attitudes of Sincerity: in Compliance, Risk  Management, and Disclosure & Communication.  This Report employs separate chapters reporting in greater  detail on matters such as the relationship between business  activities and CSR and the specific initiatives of each of the  three division companies, whose business characteristics  differ from each other.  We have decided on the information that should be covered  in this Report through consideration of its importance both  to society and to Sekisui Chemical Group, based on inputs  including surveys conducted within and outside the Group  and independent review.  A separate Data Book has been established to ensure that  the report is both comprehensive and easy to read.  Continuing efforts for which there was not enough room in  the Report are covered on the Sekisui Chemical Group  website.  Information about Sekisui Chemical Groups business is  disclosed publicly through this report and the Annual Report,  which reports financial information concerning the Group.  To ensure the reliability of this report, its environmental and  social reporting have been subjected to independent   practitioners review. Guidelines Complied with or Referred to  This report complies with the Global Reporting Initiatives  (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ver.3.1 (G3.1), at the  B+ application level as defined in those guidelines. A GRI  Guidelines comparison table is available on the Sekisui  Chemical Group website.  In preparing this report, we also have referred to the Ministry  of the Environments Environmental Reporting Guidelines  (2012 Edition). Scope of This Report Entities Encompassed by this Report:  The basic function of  this report is to comment on the activities of Sekisui Chemical  Group, focusing chiefly on the business facilities that play key  roles in those activities. Timeframe Encompassed by this Report:  April 2011 - March  2012 (including examples of activities through May 2012) Scope of Independent Practitioners Review The environmental and social information in this report has  been subjected to the independent practitioners review for the  appropriateness of calculation methods and the accuracy of the  results of calculation. The Verified logo is used to indicate that  each item of such subject information has been reviewed. Disclaimer Readers are requested to note the following: The information in this report  includes not only past and present facts concerning Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd,  and its affiliates but also future forecasts based on current plans and projections  and management plans and management policies as of the time of publication.  Changes in various factors could cause the results of business activities in the  future and other circumstances to differ from these forecasts. Also, since the  figures in the tables and graphs contained in this report have been adjusted  through rounding off and other means, in some cases total figures may not be  equal to the sums of their parts. In addition, for some items data for past fiscal  years has been revised in connection with expansions in scope, revision of  calculation methods, and changes to environmental load coefficients. Top Message Our Company CSR Management Our Philosophy / Environment-Contributing Products /  Climate Change / Resource Efficiency / Air, Water & Soil /  Biodiversity  Our Philosophy / Customer Satisfaction / Quality  Our Philosophy / Global Talents /  Career Development and Evaluation /  Decent Work and Diversity / Safety  Housing Company Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics  Company Compliance Risk Management Disclosure & Communication Nature Conservation & Social Contribution Independent Practitioners Review Report History Editors notes 19 11 25 55 35 49 43 37 3 5 7 55 57 58 59 63 64 64 CONTENTS Our Philosophy / Environm Environment y Our Philosophy / Custom CS & Quality Our Philosophy / Global Talents / Human Resources C li Bases of CSR Business and CSR:  Efforts of Division Companies About Our Report Three Prominences 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Top Message Demonstrating Our Presence Under  the Tough Business Conditions The preceding year saw continued tough business  conditions as nationwide power shortages resulting from  the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake forced a  reconsideration of how to ensure business continuity and  developments overseas included the flooding in Thailand  and the debt crisis in Europe. Fortunately, Sekisui Chemical Group was not greatly  impacted by the effects of the earthquake and flooding, so  that it could cooperate fully toward recovery and restora- tion of the affected areas in aspects such as infrastructure  and housing, for example through urgent production and  supply of PVC pipes and responding swiftly to the need for  temporary housing. It also strived to ensure stable supplies  of intermediate materials as well as parts and other  materials. Through responding to needs for infrastructure  renovations to achieve earthquake readiness and develop- ing town strong against earthquakes such as highly  earthquake-resistant and durable housing, water supply,  sewerage, and other structures, our domestic housing and  water-infrastructure businesses demonstrated their  presence. Despite some difficulties in realizing growth  overseas, for the second year in a row we were able to  realize our highest level of profit since the year 2000, when  we introduced the division-company system. While a full-fledged recovery from the Great East Japan  Earthquake still is yet to come, in the future as well the  Group will dedicate its combined abilities, not just in Japan  but on a global basis, toward building safe and secure  residences and communities as well as a sustainable society. Reviewing Fiscal 2011 Sekisui Chemical Groups CSR management efforts are based  on the principles of the Three Prominences in the  Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources and the  Three Attitudes of Sincerity of Compliance, Risk  Management, and Disclosure & Communication. As was the  case in the preceding year, the greatest result in fiscal 2011  was the expansion and growth of Environment-Contributing  Products. We define Environment-Contributing Products as  those that can contribute to reducing societys environmen- 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Growing Our Businesses and Contributing  to Society, to be a Company Sustainable  for the next 100 years  tal load instead of just incorporating the perspectives of  consideration for the environment. Our target for fiscal 2013  is to increase sales of Environment-Contributing Products to  a share of 40% of net sales, and already in fiscal 2011 we have  grown this share to the 37% level. We believe that the  concept of demonstrating prominence in the environment  and achieving growth has begun steadily generating results.  At the same time, the year also showed that some issues still  need to be addressed, as for example major quality issues  unfortunately continued to arise and occupational accidents  increased overseas. We intend to improve our efforts to  address such issues through continued thorough implemen- tation of activities to eliminate them completely. Groupwide CSR Efforts In fiscal 2011, five years after the start of the current CSR  management system in January 2007, we established a  Safety Subcommittee under the CSR Committee, aiming to  strengthen the system further in the area of safety, on a  global basis. We now address CSR through deployment of  the business policy of having each division company and  department establish and address its own CSR topics and  priorities, all based on discussion and consideration in the  CSR Committee and individual subcommittees. Overseas, we continue to hold area-specific company  presidents conferences and staff meetings for purposes  including sharing of thinking and values within the Group  and cooperating to address topics common to individual  areas overseas. These meetings are generating steady results. In the future as well, we will continue working to deploy  and achieve permeation of CSR management throughout  Sekisui Chemical Group as a whole, reflecting matters such as  the business characteristics of each division company and  the characteristics of each area overseas. In addition, we will continue supporting the United  Nations Global Compact as a platform for deploying CSR  management on a global basis. To be a Company Sustainable for the Next 100  years, Based on Business Growth and CSR It is expected that the external business environment will  continue to undergo massive changes in the future as well.  I would like us to be a company that can continue contri- buting to society by reforming itself in response to environ- mental changes and growing in its prominent businesses. The midterm management plan identifies seven areas  including the housing stock, pipe rehabilitation, water  infrastructure, automotive, and electronic materials fields as  areas for future growth and expansion, and segments such  as the environment, energy, and building stock are  expected to experience future growth. I believe that solving  the issues faced in peoples lives and society – environmen- tal problems and the need to improve the quality of social  infrastructure and ways of life (by making them more  comfortable, more convenient, and healthier) while at the  same time achieving business growth in these areas will  necessarily constitute contribution to society through our  businesses, and as such business growth truly can be said  to be on the same axle as CSR. By reforming our business model through being  sensitive to changes in the external environment and  energizing the internal organization, so that we in Sekisui  Chemical Group will execute SHINKA (evolution)  ourselves, we can achieve both sustainable business  growth and evolution of CSR. For this reason, we will continue encouraging each  Sekisui Chemical Group employee to take an active role.  We will aim to make Sekisui Chemical Group a sustainable  organization that can continue demonstrating its presence  even 100 years in the future, by continuing to evolve the  Groups CSR management within its business activities  through achieving an environment in which individual  employees can grow through their work, seeing them- selves as leaders and constantly taking on challenges,  while at the same time growing our businesses with a  focus on the environment and contributing to society by  expanding and creating Environment-Contributing  Products as well as supplying truly satisfying products and  services that reflect customer feedback. President 4 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Our Company Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Headquarters Europe Companies  26 Employees  1,512 Japan Companies  81 Employees 15,747 Asia/Oceania (including China) Companies  31 Employees  2,113 Americas  (North, Central, South) Companies  19 Employees  1,483 Key Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Group Company President Company President Company President Sekisu sui Ch C em e iccala  CCo.o., , Ltd.d President Note: Figures current as of March 31, 2012 (consolidated basis) The Division Company System and Business Areas Sekisui Chemical Group Worldwide Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Housing  Sekisui Heim Series  Two-U Series Renovation  remodeling Real Estate Brokerage services of quality homes  Piping Materials  and cable conduits  Construction  (rain gutters, decking materials,  insulation materials)  Functional Materials   motor-vehicle  Information Technology   Automotive    materials Medical Medical devices Functional Materials    2011 (FY) 2004 19.6% 9.5% 80.4% U.S.  5.8% Europe  5.9% Asia  6.8% Percentage of net sales from overseas Other  1.1% Net Sales by Region Japan  Japan  75.5% Total 20,855 Employees by Region Asia/Oceania 10.1% Americas (North, Central, South)  7.1% Europe 7.3% 5 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Satisfy customer needs to the fullest extent Provide the best possible services to customers Deepen relationships with  business partners and  associated companies Promote coexistence and  co-prosperity through fair  transactions Strive for the sustained  growth of corporate value Ensure the clear and timely  disclosure of information Establish a culture that encourages  employees to set their own goals  and take on new challenges Assure the validity of  performance-based evaluation Contribute to society and the  environment with our products Build harmony with local  communities as a good  corporate citizen CS & Quality Environment Human Resources Disclosure & Communication Compliance Make ecology and economic activities compatible Enhance each employees awareness Gain and maintain the full  trust of our customers Risk Management Take thorough steps to prevent trouble occurring and reduce the generation of after-the-event risks Reflect stakeholders opinions in corporate activities Encourage employees to set their own goals positively Three Attitudes of Sincerity CS & Qua an Resources Three Prominences Sekisui Chemical Group does business in line with the 3S  Principle describing its fundamental principles of service to  society; originality, ingenuity, and the pioneer spirit; and  quality improvements. Sekisui Chemical Group considers CSR to refer to contributing to  sustainable society through its businesses: in essence, making the  Mission Statement reality. We believe that promoting CSR  management increases the quality of corporate management. Based on this understanding, it is our philosophy that sustained  business growth and business innovation require the continuation of  serious efforts at CSR management without regard for conditions of  the business environment and continuation of reform and SHINKA  (evolution). Sekisui Chemical Group has identified as key themes of CSR  management Three Prominences — in the Environment, CS & Quality,  and Human Resources — and the Three Attitudes of Sincerity — in  Compliance, Risk Management, and Disclosure & Communication. The  Three Prominences in particular have been chosen because efforts in the  areas of the Environment and CS & Quality are the natural responsibilities  of a manufacturer and it is human resources who advance such efforts. Efforts under the midterm management plan also have a focus on  CSR, and we believe that issues to address in the future are those of  achieving further permeation of CSR within the organization and  deployment of CSR management on a global basis. CSR: The Foundation of Management The 3S Principle  Sekisui Chemical Group will provide new value to society  through a variety of aspects of our business activities, seeing as  our key stakeholders our  Customers,  Shareholders,  Employees,  Business Partners, and Local Communities and  the Environment. Mission Statement Three Prominences and Three Attitudes of Sincerity Service  world community through our global  business network Speed  of development with the power and  vitality of a mighty waterfall  Superiority  superior operational performance and the highest  quality standard  Our company badge comprises the three Ss of the companys original  name, adopted at the time of its foundation, SEKISUI SANGYO enclosed in  a hexagonal shape resembling a tortoise shell (the chemical symbol for  benzene), symbolizing the Chinese character meaning water. Employees Local Communities and  the Environment Business Partners Customers Shareholders Sekisui Chemical Groups Company Creed and Company Principle Our CSR 6 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  CSR Management Corporate Governance System Operating Officers Board of Directors External Directors Housing Company High Performance Plastics Company Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products Company Headquarters Corporate Auditors (including External Corporate Auditors) Note: See the Corporate Governance Report for details. President Operating Officer President Operating Officer President Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer President and CEO To maximize corporate value, Sekisui Chemical Group has built  its management structure based on a system of three division  companies. Believing that increasing the transparency and  fairness of management and pursuing swift decision-making  are important to continually increasing corporate value amid a  changing business environment, it implements a variety of  efforts related to corporate governance. Strengthening the Business Execution Function Together with assigning operating officers specializing in  business execution to each division company, an Executive  Committee has been established to serve as the top decision- making body in each division company. As such, a broad range  of authority has been transferred from the Board of Directors to  the Executive Committee. The Board of Directors strives to  achieve continual improvements in corporate value as an  organization responsible for decision on basic policies of  Sekisui Chemical Groups management as well as high-level  decision-making and supervision of business execution. Compliance Surpassing the Requirements of  Japanese Law  Appointment of external directors  Operating officer system (term: one year)  Early issue of notices of general meetings of shareholders  Exercise of voting rights electronically in general meetings of  shareholders  Formulation of rules on corporate information disclosure We strive to increase the value of our products and services  through addressing from a CSR perspective the various aspects  of activities such as R&D, which is a foundation for revenues and  growth, intellectual property, which is one of the outcomes of  R&D, and procurement of the raw materials, parts, and other  materials needed in manufacturing development. R&D Each division company, Headquarters, and each key affiliate has  an R&D section that handles a broad range of R&D such as basic  research through product development and production  technologies, working to increase the speed of technological  development in growth areas and create outstanding  technologies. Intellectual Property Under the basic policy of securing business competitive strength  through obtaining strong patents, we are striving to improve  quality and raise awareness in development through efforts  including introduction of a system of P Badges awarded to  employees who have obtained a certain number of patents and  providing training on intellectual property. Procurement Sekisui Chemical Group procures materials based on the  fundamental concepts of openness, fairness and equity, legal  compliance, mutual trust, and consideration for the environment.  In addition to quality and delivery times, suppliers are requested  to give consideration to the environment, comply with laws,  regulations, and societal norms, and ensure health and safety in  their own companies. Sekisui Chemical Groups Procurement Policy http://www.sekisuichemical.com/suggestion/index.html Lumber Procurement For structural lumber materials, which account for the bulk of  lumber used in homes, we use certified lumber (for example,  lumber certified by the Forest Stewardship Council, or FSC). Such  certified lumber is procured lawfully from properly managed  forests. Corporate Governance R&D, Intellectual Property, Procurement 7 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Three Prominences Three Attitudes of Sincerity Environment  Increase Environment-Contributing  Products  37% of net sales (target: 35%)  Over 40% of net sales  Reduce by 5.0 billion  (from FY2004 level)  0 cases  300 people  20 cases/year  30%  Maintain reductions of 20% or more  from FY1990 level (domestic)  Reduce by 5% or more from FY2008  level (overseas)  Reduced by 3 billion  (from FY2004 level)  2 cases (target: 0 cases)  13 cases of using the Intra-group Job  Posting System for post-hiring transfers  27% of new graduate recruits  were women (target: 30%)  Increased Global Talents  employees to 271 people  Expanded international recruiting  21% reduction from FY1990  level (domestic) (target: 21% reduction)  Decent work & diversity  Continue raising awareness  Develop overseas compliance  Education and instruction catered to  staff level and specific groups  Overseas compliance system  constructed  Continue raising awareness  Cultivate key individuals for  overseas compliance  Continue risk management  activities  Continue overseas development  Increase communication efforts in  each region  Implemented risk-management  activities in subject sections  Reconstructed crisis-management  system  Earned Sustainable Asset Management  (SAM) Gold Class CSR rating  Earned selection for FTSE4Good Global  Indexes  Earned selection to the Morningstar  Socially Responsible Investment Index  (MS-SRI)  Deploy risk-management activities  Enhance external recognition and  perception of the Company  Continue open dialogue with  employees  Reduce greenhouse gas emissions  External failure costs  Major quality issues  Global talents  Career development & evaluation Compliance Risk Management Disclosure &  Communication CS & Quality Human Resources Main Activities Theme FY2013 Targets Main Activities Theme FY2011 Results FY2013 Targets FY2011 Results Verified The CSR Committee, with Participation by  Top Management and Employee Representatives As venues for deliberation on CSR management, we have set  up the CSR Committee and five subcommittees: the  Environmental Subcommittee, the CS & Quality Subcommittee,  the Human Resources Subcommittee, the Compliance  Subcommittee, and the Safety Subcommittee. (The Safety  Subcommittee was established during 2011.) (See the Data  Book, p. 20, for more information on the CSR management  system.) Chaired by the President, the CSR Committees member- ship also includes the president of each division company and  three representatives of employees — one key group of  stakeholders — to help improve deliberation and policies. Each  Subcommittee promotes groupwide efforts for Sekisui  Chemical Group while ascertaining and deliberating on  companywide topics as they relate to matters such as issues  involved in the themes of which each subcommittee is in  charge and the state of activities in each division company.  Under this system, operating officers must take part in the  subcommittees concerned with their areas of responsibility. The CSR Committee and each subcommittee meet at least  once every half-year, to establish midterm CSR plans and key  indicators in each field as well as deliberating on the state of  progress on each of these. Promoting CSR in Unity with Management Planning CSR is put into practice within daily business activities by  breaking it down to its appropriate places in the management  plans of each division company and Headquarters based on  deliberation in the CSR Committee and in each subcommittee. Main Areas of Progress in the CSR Midterm Plan CSR Management 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  CSR Management The brochure SEKISUI in Europe displays for the  first time the wide range of technologies,  services and products including CSR  Activities by presenting all companies of  SEKISUI Chemical Goupe in Europe.  Used as information tool for all  employees as well as for external  stakeholders, our target is to establish  a closer link and intensified communi- cation on all levels. Together with the European group it  is my target to further enhance SEKISUI  brand reputation in Europe and to  demonstrate its strong philosophy in  every days activity. VOICE he  Lena Zemke Group Marketing Sekisui SPR Europe G.m.b.H. Reflecting its global business development, since 2007 Sekisui  Chemical Group has held annual Global Presidents Meetings  in Japan for presidents of affiliated companies overseas to  discuss CSR. Since fiscal 2010, in light of the fact that topics of concern  vary by area, we have held area-specific Presidents Meetings  crossing the boundaries between division companies in  addition to the Presidents Meetings in Japan. These meetings  take place in the individual territories of Europe, the Americas,  Asia/Oceania, China, and South Korea. These Presidents Meetings aim to fulfill our social  responsibilities in each area and evolve Group management,  by having presidents of companies taking part in different lines  of business work together, identify topics of concern in each  area, and discuss solutions. For example, in Europe, the Presidents Meeting discussed on  what kind of topics were involved in responding to the need to  take some steps to enhance Sekisui Chemical Groups reputation  in that territory. To resolve the issues that became clear through  this process, a pamphlet was prepared with staff in public relation  section, marketing section or similar sections playing a central  role, to introduce Sekisui Chemical Groups thinking on CSR and  the CSR initiatives of each company in Europe. In addition, the Presidents Meeting in the Americas  addressed the common theme of human resources policies,  deciding to introduce joint hiring and an intra-group job  posting system for post-hiring transfers. At the same time, staff  from HR sections also met to study, through introducing the  CSR efforts of each company, whether there were any  opportunities for cooperation. At the same time, since fiscal 2010 CSR Staff Meetings have  been held in order to further spread CSR efforts across and  throughout the organizations of business facilities and  affiliated companies in Japan. In fiscal 2011, with the coopera- tion of the TOTO LTD., participants toured a TOTO LTD. plant  and exchanged opinions with personnel from TOTOs  department promoting CSR. Plans call for holding this meeting periodically in the future  as well. Respect for International Norms Sekisui Chemical Group respects international norms and standards  regarding CSR. It announced its support for the United Nations Global  Compact1 in March 2009, and since then it has been advancing CSR  efforts on a global basis. We also refer to ISO 26000, an international social-responsibility  guideline issued in November 2010, in enhancing internal efforts and in  the editing of this CSR Report. 1 United Nations Global Compact  A voluntary program in which top management of firms around the world pledge to comply with 10 principles on subjects  such as human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption efforts within the scopes of influence of their  firms and participate in building a global framework for realizing sustainable growth. CSR Efforts in Japan and Overseas Global  Presidents  Meeting for  presidents of  overseas  affiliates  The SEKISUI  In Europe  brouchre  9 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Support for the Restoration of Water and  Sewer Infrastructure in Affected Areas In March 2011, immediately after the earthquake, the Urban  Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company established  an earthquake recovery project with its own full-time staff. This  project started by making the rounds of local governments and  local disaster task forces in the affected areas to make a study of  what kinds of materials and construction were needed, to carry  out surveying and diagnostics of sewer and other pipes, and to  support damage surveys, among other activities. In April, construction began to install water pipes at  temporary housing for evacuees in the city of Kamaishi, Iwate  Prefecture. Utilizing lightweight, highly flexible, easy-to-install  polyethylene water pipes, this project was able to lay 1.6  kilometers of pipe in seven days in effect. Other construction  projects conducted in the same city included extension of water  pipes to temporary housing and installation of temporary piping  to restore services previously provided by cast-iron piping that  was washed away in the tsunami. In addition, the city of Kesennuma in Miyagi Prefecture was  experiencing continued water-supply cutoffs after water pipes  that had been installed on bridges were washed away in the  tsunami. Sekisui Chemical worked to restore the services  provided by these pipes by taking advantage of the strengths of  polyethylene pipes, which are lightweight and easy to transport  and also can be joined quickly. Successively, the Group carried out a number of fast-paced  construction projects including laying of water-supply pipes to  temporary housing and evacuation shelters, restoration of water  pipes in residential districts, restoration of damaged sewer pipes,  and supply of electricity through underground cable pipes, all  utilizing the strengths of plastic pipes: their outstanding  flexibility, light weight, and ease of installation. Further work  conducted included emergency repairs to retaining walls which  had almost collapsed, using highly durable retaining wall panels. In addition, Sekisui Chemical, which marks the 60th  anniversary in 2012 of the introduction of Eslon HI PVC pipes, will  donate part of the proceeds from sales of these and related  products to local governments in  affected areas. Supporting Customers Homes and Supplying  Temporary Housing to Affected Areas The Tohoku and Kanto regions of Japan damaged by the Great  East Japan Earthquake include approximately 180,000 Sekisui  Heim residences. Even when it could not yet check actual sites  due to severance of the road network, the Housing Company  estimated the impact of the earthquake and tsunami based on  information it had on customers homes and readied a system  for responding to related damage. At the same time, it  established emergency customer centers not just at Sekisui  Heim sales facilities in the Tohoku region but in Tokyo as well.  These centers received nearly 50,000 inquiries in total, including  reports on damage and requests for emergency repairs. In areas where the damage was said to be severe, it  prepared an emergency inspection and diagnostics manual with  a focus on the degree of damage from the earthquake and  tsunami and on the near-term livability of residences, and then it  conducted surveys in the affected areas. In addition to housing  repairs, it also systematically addressed damage to fixtures,  equipment, and interiors. To realize swift responses to customer needs for repairs in  light of the geographically widespread nature of the damage  and the large number of damaged homes, it strengthened its  repair structure in the Tohoku region through means including  bringing together repair personnel from Sekisui Heim and  Fami S (renovation section) facilities across Japan. Furthermore,  it also cooperated in construction of temporary housing in  response to a request made by the Japanese government to the  Japan Federation of Housing Organization (Judanren), supplying  temporary homes to areas including Iwate, Miyagi, and  Fukushima prefectures. Even after the completion of construc- tion, it provides continual support such as additional construc- tion to make the housing warmer during cold weather and  construction of meeting places and  lounges inside complexes of  temporary housing. Recovering from the Great East Japan Earthquake Sekisui Chemical Groups business is to provide housing and the infrastructure essential to support living. Utilizing the characteristics of these businesses, it is carrying out a variety of activities to support recovery from  the Great East Japan Earthquake. 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Our  Philosophy Pioneering a New Future  with Balance between Ecology  and the Economy Environmentally Creative Organization Toward  being  a leader in  environmental  management Business  processes Products Local  communities Global  environment Contributing to  the environment  and society  through nature  conservation  activities Contributing to  the environment  and society  through business  activities and  products Reducing  environmental  load in all business  processes Activities by  concerted efforts  of all employees Environment We aim to be an environmental leader,  pursuing both ecological  and economic goals Preventing  Global  Warming Efficient  Utilization of  Resources Biodiversity ngg  g Three area Th eas of focu o us Two  targets Achieving  negative  carbon3 Preservation  of  biodiversity Environmental Management  Vision for 2030 3 Negative Carbon Exceeding greenhouse-gas emissions attributable to business activities such as raw materials and  production with offsetting reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions during product use 1 Ecology Caring for and contributing to the global environment, and living in symbiosis with the local environment 2 Economy Ensuring economic benefits for both customers and businesses Based on its environmental philosophy of aiming to be a Global Environmental Top Runner  that contributes to the realization of a sustainable society by enabling the continuous growth  and co-existence of ecology1 and the economy2, Sekisui Chemical Group aims to be a  company whose growth is built around the axle of the environment, by developing products and providing  services that will facilitate environmental contributions by society in addition to lessening the environmental  load of its business activities. In addition, we will contribute to the prevention of global warming, the preservation of biological diversity  and the construction of a sound material-cycle society in all countries and regions where we operate, in order  to leave this beautiful earth for our children in the future. We also will aggressively work on social contribution  activities such as nature conservation activities in each region. The Environmental Management Policy and System See Data Book p. 20, 21 In fiscal 2009, Sekisui Chemical Group established the Sekisui  Eco-Frontier 2030 as a vision to make clear the courses of action  and achievement levels of environmental management and serve as a  guidepost to sustainable growth. This vision depicts the type of society that  Sekisui Chemical Group aims to achieve as a society on the environmental  frontier. This refers to a society in which environmental awareness and  environment-friendly lifestyles become broadly and firmly established among  people and both businesses and governments recognize the environment to be  one of their most important values. To realize this vision, we have identified three areas of focus and two targets. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 11  Sekisui Chemical Group is promoting the Midterm Environmental  Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (FY 2009 – 2013),  based on back-casting1 from the Sekisui Eco-Frontier 2030 goals. This plan establishes four key themes. In fiscal 2011, sales of  Environment-Contributing Products surpassed targets. While  reducing greenhouse-gas emissions went as planned, the targets  for reducing volumes of wastes generated were not achieved. In an effort to carry out environmental management  effectively, we have developed our environmental  management system (EMS) in accordance with the ISO  14001 standard and are working to expand application  of this system throughout the entire Sekisui Chemical  Group. As of March 2012, 62 business sites in Japan and  25 sites overseas had obtained certifications such as ISO  14001. The number of employees at these business  sites represents 68% of all Sekisui Chemical Group  employees. 1 Back-casting A method of considering steps that should be taken at present by envisioning a goal  for the future and working backward to the present state. Turning out the lights  during lunchtime at all sites Ratio of Sales of Environment- Contributing Products 37% 15% 2011 2007 (FY) 22% UP 21% down Volumes of waste generated (Japan) Sekisui Eco Value Index 2.6Times 1.0 2011 2007 (FY) 342Thousand tons-CO2 433 2011 1990 (FY) Greenhouse-gas emissions (Japan) 17% down 36.1Thousand tons 43.6 2011 2007 (FY) 2.6 times Verified Verified Verified Verified An office  with the lights  turned off The 2007  Global Childrens  Eco Summit In response to a proposal from children made at the Global Childrens Eco Summit3 held  in Japan in 2007, Sekisui Chemical Group has turned out the lights during lunchtime at  all of its business sites both in Japan and worldwide. Through efforts such as this one  that involves conducting the same activity worldwide, we will contribute to raising  employees environmental awareness and to lessening the load on the environment. 3 Global Childrens Eco Summit An international forum in which children of employees from around the world gather together to  discuss the environment and make proposals to Sekisui Chemical Group management Environmental Management System Environmental Midterm Plan Overseas  Sites Supply  Chain We ask suppliers to obtain certifications  such as ISO 14001 and Eco Action 212  and support them in these efforts. We have developed a structure for  collecting data on environmental load at  overseas sites and are implementing efforts  to minimize environmental load at each of  these sites. In addition, all 44 main sites  have established targets of acquiring ISO  14001 certification and achieving the goal  of zero waste emissions. In fiscal 2011  Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Americas two  plants and Changzhou Zhongji Precision  Molding Plastic Co., Ltd. attained ISO 14001  certification and activities also are  underway toward achieving the goal of  zero waste emissions. 2 Eco Action 21 Certification of environmental  management systems, established by  the Ministry of the Environment of Japan 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Environment-Contributing Products conceptual diagram Scope of environmental load reduction Environment-Contributing Products Sekisui Chemical Groups  business activities Our customers and society Environment-friendly  products High Low Net Sales of Environment- Contributing Products and  their ratio to total net sales (vs. FY 2010) Environmental contribution level Products and  businesses that  demonstrably help  reduce the  environmental load of  our customers and  society Products or  systems having at least  a certain degree of effect  on reducing environmental  load compared to similar  conventional products  and systems Contributing to Minimizing the  Environmental Load of Our Stake- holders and Society Through our  Products and Businesses Expansion of Environment-Contributing Products One of the targets of Sekisui Chemical Groups Midterm Environmental Plan is that of growing  the ratio of sales of Environment-Contributing Products to total consolidated net sales to 40%  or higher in fiscal 2013. (See Data Book, p. 8) In fiscal 2011, strong sales of houses with solar energy generation systems and an increase  in the lineup of Environment-Contributing Products led to growth in net sales of them to 359.2  billion yen. This is a ratio of 37% of total net sales, more than achieving the target of 35% for the  fiscal year. When converting their results to carbon-dioxide emissions reductions, these  Environment-Contributing Products have resulted in a reduction in carbon-dioxide emissions  more than offsetting the amount of carbon dioxide emissions generated in Sekisui Chemical  Group production activities in Japan (according to Sekisui Chemical estimates). We also have prepared a pamphlet providing an easy-to-understand introduction to  Sekisui Chemical Groups Environment-Contributing Products and their results. Verified (FY) 2010 2011 37% 33% billion yen 302.6 billion yen 359.2 (billion yen) (%) 0 300 350 400 0 30 35 40 Environment Environment- Contributing  Products  pamphlet Sekisui Chemical Groups CSR is to contribute to sustainable society through business.  To contribute to minimizing the environmental load of society, it is essential that businesses create  and promote widespread use of products that will make active contributions to the environment.  In fiscal 2006 Sekisui Chemical Group established Environment-Contributing Product Standards  calling for an even higher level of contribution to the environment than before, and since then it  has managed such products through a certification system. (See Data Book, p. 8) Environment-Contributing Products 13 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Third Party Evaluation External Advisory Board Flow of Certification of  Environment-Contributing Product Development Application:  Application for certification by Business Units Screening:  Screening by internal certification screening committee To increase the reliability and transparency of the Environment- Contributing Product certification system, in fiscal 2010 Sekisui Chemical  Group established the External Advisory Board, a third party organization,  from which it receives advice and recommendations on the certification  system as a whole. During fiscal 2011, the External Advisory Board met in September  2011 and February 2012, providing opinions on individual Environment- Contributing Products. Advisors also provided a variety of opinions and  recommendations concerning this system as well as Sekisui Chemical  Groups environmental management. Attendees from Sekisui Chemical  included responsible Directors down to the environmental personnel of  each division company and Headquarters. We are utilizing the opinions  received in our environmental management. External Advisory Board System for Environmental Consideration in Products Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing the Three Greening Steps intended to  incorporate consideration for the environment in three stages of its value chain:  development, procurement, and manufacturing. For this purpose, we are  implementing systems including Product Assessments for Environmental  Impact, Green Procurement, and Prior Assessment of Capital Expenditure.  (See Data Book, p. 8) Forms related to green procurement and other materials are available  on the Sekisui Chemical website. http://www.sekisui.co.jp/company/suggestion/ Responsibilities of the  External Advisory Board 1. Matters related to the effectiveness of operation  of the Environment-Contributing Products  system 2. Matters related to the objectivity, fairness, and  appropriateness of the Environment- Contributing Product certification standards 3. Other matters related to operation of the  Environment-Contributing Products system and  the system for certification of Environment- Contributing Products in general The External  Advisory Board Greening of  Procurement  (Green Procurement  System) Greening of  Development  (Product Assessment  System for  Environmental Impact) Greening of  Manufacturing  (Prior Assessment  System of Capital  Expenditure) ment Green G Three Greening Steps Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Three Prominences Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Bases of CSR Business and CSR 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Reducing Greenhouse-Gas Emissions  Throughout the Product Life Cycle Conceptual Diagram of Carbon Negative Reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions Production Shipping Use R&D Development of  Environment-Contributing Products Promotion of  Environment-Contributing Products Carbon  emissions Carbon  reduction  effect Raw materials R&D Production Business activities Shipping Product Product use Offsetting reduction  in greenhouse-gas  emissions during product use exceeds  greenhouse-gas emissions attributable  to business activities. Procure- ment Achieving carbon negative (see p. 11) requires both development and promotion of  Environment-Contributing Products and controlling greenhouse-gas emissions from business.  Sekisui Chemical Group continues related efforts throughout the entire product life cycle. 1 Measures to promote investing in the environment Measures under which Headquarters helps division companies cover the costs of investment for the purpose of controlling greenhouse-gas emissions in accordance  with the resulting reductions. In fiscal 2009 investment in making energy use visible so its actual conditions could be ascertained was added to the subject of these  measures, which originally were adopted in fiscal 2007. Activities at the Production Stage (in Japan and Worldwide) We have established the target for fiscal 2013 of reducing greenhouse-gas  emissions generated at the production stage in Japan by at least 20%  compared to the fiscal 1990 level. In fiscal 2011 we realized a reduction of  21% compared to the fiscal 1990 level, thanks in part to the results of  measures to promote investing in the environment1. Since Sekisui Chemical  Groups production sites overseas are subject to considerable changes in  areas such as product lineups as the overseas business grows, the Group  has established guidelines calling for achieving in fiscal 2013 reduction of at  least 5% from fiscal 2008 in energy consumption per unit of output. Each  site is setting targets based on its own circumstances. Since fiscal 2010, Sekisui Chemical Group has been implementing the  Energy 50% Process intended to cut energy costs by one-half through  production innovations. The number of facilities implementing the process  is undergoing steady expansion, reaching the level of 16 facilities as of the  end of fiscal 2011. GHG Emissions Verified 600 400 200 0 (FY) 2010 2009 2008 2007 1990 156 160 350 419 389 433 365 330 341 2011 452 342 Greenhouse gas (Emissions from the Production Stage) Notes: Overseas data cover carbon-dioxide emissions only. Overseas figures have increased since fiscal 2009 in connection with  an increase in the number of overseas sites due to acquisitions, etc. Fiscal 2009 figures have been revised beginning with CSR Report  2010 in connection with a change in rules for collection of data on  overseas sites. Japan Overseas (1,000 tons-CO2) Environment Verified R&D Efforts in Stages Other Than Production Total greenhouse-gas emissions in fiscal 2011 Typical efforts Resulting reductions 13,000 tons-CO2 Continued thorough energy management 32% reduction vs. fiscal 2007 17% reduction vs. fiscal 2007 15% reduction vs. fiscal 2007 Reduced emissions through use of joint shipping and modal shifts Energy-conservation activities including regularly turning off lights  and using restraint in air-conditioner settings Shipping Offices 43,000 tons-CO2 16,000 tons-CO2 Efforts to Achieve  Carbon Negative Throughout  the Product Life Cycle Climate Change 15 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  3R Reduce Recycle Reuse Reducing Wastes Generated To utilize resources efficiently, Sekisui Chemical Group is focusing in particular on  restraining waste generation and reusing wastes. In fiscal 2011, production sites in  Japan achieved a 17% reduction in total waste generated vs. fiscal 2007 through  efforts to improve the stability and efficiency of production, such as zero-defect  activities. They also reduced waste per unit of output by 8.5 percent. While new housing construction sites originally have generated low volumes of  waste, our goal for fiscal 2013 is to reduce this amount further by 45% vs. the fiscal  2000 level for steel frame modular housing and 62% vs. the fiscal 2000 level for  timber-framed modular housing. In fiscal 2011, efforts such as measuring wastes on a  per-unit basis, reducing excess material use through activities including adoption of a  system of authorization of waste transportation covering broader areas, and activities  to reduce scrap and packaging materials succeeded in reducing total waste  generated per home by 32% vs. fiscal 2000 for steel frame modular housing and 49%  over the same period for timber-framed modular housing. Zero Waste Emissions Since 1998, Sekisui Chemical Group has promoted Zero Waste Emissions Activities toward restraining waste  generation and reusing wastes. We have achieved zero waste emissions at main production facilities and housing  construction and remodeling sites. We are carrying out activities toward our goal under the Midterm Environmental  Plan (see Data Book, p. 3) of achieving zero waste emissions at all subject facilities by fiscal 2013. In fiscal 2011, the  percentages of facilities that had achieved this goal were 95% in Japan and 17% overseas. Conservation of Water Resources Sekisui Chemical Group is striving to reduce water use through  means including cyclic use of cooling water. Water intake for  the entire Group in fiscal 2011 fell by 3.4% in comparison with  the fiscal 2007 level. Sekisui Chemical Group pursues reduction, reuse, and recycle throughout the product life cycle.  In addition to Zero Waste Emissions Activities intended to reuse as resources all the waste it  generates from its business activities, it also is striving to preserve water resources. (1,000 tons) 60 40 20 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 (FY) 39.3 43.6 36.0 39.5 36.1 Total Waste Generated  (Production Facilities in Japan) Verified (Million tons) 30 20 10 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 (FY) 16.9 17.0 16.5 16.5 16.4 Water Intake at Production Sites Verified Production Construction Use Disposal Development Pursuing to Reduce, Reuse,  and Recycle Throughout  the Product Life Cycle Resource Efficiency Environment Waste Emissions Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Three Prominences Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Bases of CSR Business and CSR 16 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  System for Control of Chemical Substances throughout the Product Life Cycle Product Assessment System for  Environmental Impact     Formulation and implementation  of the Chemicals Management  Regulations Development Green Procurement System    Procurement Prior Assessment System of  Capital Expenditure   Implementation of various  preservation activities Formulation and implementation  of the Chemicals Management  Regulations Production Information Disclosure   Transportation Sale/Use Information Disclosure  1 Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact A system for assessment of the environmental impact of a product development all the way from raw material  procurement through manufacture, use, disposal, transport, and all other stages (see Data Book, p. 8). 2 Green Procurement System A system of giving priority to choosing raw materials, parts, etc. with lower levels of environmental impact when  procuring them. VOC & HCFCs Since fiscal 1999, Sekisui Chemical Group has been working to reduce  discharge of pollutants into the environment. Since fiscal 2006, we have  aimed for the target of at least 60%  reduction in discharge of VOCs into  the atmosphere in fiscal 2013  compared to fiscal 2000. In fiscal  2011 we achieved a 52% reduction  compared to fiscal 2000. In fiscal 2008 we ended all use  of HCFCs. (See Data Book, p. 13) Soil Surveying In fiscal 2011, we conducted surveys  compliant with relevant laws at four sites.  Results of these surveys showed values  exceeding standards for soil pollution on  parts of the sites of the Sekisui Chemical  Shiga-Ritto and Tokyo plants, the Sekisui  Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant, and  the Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Ota Plant (see  Data Book, p. 12). Plans call for addressing the areas with  excess values in accordance with the law. Air and Water Sekisui Chemical Group complies with the regulatory  values under laws and ordinances for the various types  of equipment it uses in connection with exhaust gases  and drain water. We also strive to control discharge of  pollutants through appropriate maintenance and  management including periodic inspections. PCBs Stored transformers and condensers that contain PCBs are  being disposed of steadily, beginning with sites for which  acceptance at PCB treatment facilities is available. Machines and equipment in storage that contain PCBs  are managed strictly and thoroughly, through means  including locked storage and periodic inspection. VOC Emissions (FY) 2000 2011 1,397 2,936 Verified Environment Minimizing Environmental  Impact through Proper Control of Chemical Substances  While chemical substances make peoples lives more convenient, they also could have harmful  effects on the environment or on human beings. Therefore, we believe that consideration of  product safety, occupational safety and health, and environmental impact through proper  management of chemical substances is an important responsibility of a manufacturer. Sekisui  Chemical Group is implementing efforts such as the Product Assessment System for  Environmental Impact1 and the Green Procurement System2 as well as setting our own targets  for reducing discharge and transfer of chemicals. We also review periodically chemical  substances that are candidates for control or regulation of use, in accordance with the  establishment and amendment of relevant laws and regulations. Air, Water, & Soil 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Approach to Biodiversity Preservation Environmentally  conscious business Nature conservation activities  around the world Environmental  Management Policy  (revised April 2008) Guidelines for Preservation  of Biodiversity  (established  March 2011) Declaration of Biodiversity and Action Policy  by Keidanren Sekisui Chemical Group identifies biodiversity as a priority area in its  Long-Term Environmental Management Vision (see p. 11), and in March 2011  we established guidelines for related efforts. In accordance with these  guidelines, in fiscal 2011 we began at three business sites in Japan  assessment of activities such as production processes and land use from the  perspective of their impacts on ecosystems. The results confirmed that the  loads these sites placed on ecosystems generally were low at the present  time. They also showed that through revision of methods such as those for  management of flood retarding basins on business sites and periodic  management of flora such as trees and reeds in the vicinity, it would be  possible to create an environment rich with biodiversity and to provide  habitat for a diverse range of creatures. In the future as well we will  continue assessment at individual sites and link these to practical  Biodiversity Assessment Nature Conservation Activities at All Sites Sekisui Chemical Group believes that continual nature conservation  activities conducted at business sites are important as one means of  preserving biodiversity. Based on the goal in the Midterm  Environmental Plan (see Data Book, p. 3) of conducting nature  conservation activities at all business sites in Japan by fiscal 2013, we  have deployed forest development activities in seven blocks in Japan.  To promote these activities, in December 2011 we concluded a basic  agreement with the National Land Afforestation Promotion  Organization affirming comprehensive cooperation on development  of Sekisui Chemical Forests. In addition, five overseas facilities in the  four areas of Europe, the Americas, China, and Asia will advance  biodiversity preservation efforts as well. Environment Kurohama Marsh A place expected to be  capable of providing  habitat to a diverse range  of creatures through  proper management Flood retarding basins  on business sites Places expected to be  capable of providing habitat  to a diverse range of  creatures through proper  management of water  volumes and flora Striving to Preserve Biodiversity through Both Business Activities and Social Contributions In April 2008, Sekisui Chemical Group incorporated items on biodiversity to its  Environmental Management Policy. Since then it has strived to preserve biodiversity  through both environmentally conscious business and deploying nature conservation  activities around the world. Biodiversity 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Three Prominences Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Bases of CSR Business and CSR  2009 Customers & Society Creating  Attractive Qualities Enhancing Basic Qualities Use of  Customers  Feedback Use of  Customers  Feedback Quality always specified by customers 100 57 43 59 2 External failure costs (Indicator) 100 80 60 40 20 0 2011 2010 2004 2009 (FY) Major quality issues (Incidents) 3 2 1 0 2011 2010 1 2 (FY) Verified Verified   1 External failure costs Costs arising from responding to product-related complaints and claims. 2 Major quality issues Problems related to product and service quality that could cause significant  damage to customers, society, or Sekisui Chemical Group if not thoroughly  resolved on an urgent basis. Since 1999, Sekisui Chemical Group has employed CS management focused on customer  satisfaction (CS). In 2004 we began CS & Quality Management focusing on products and  services quality innovations in all of our businesses. The aim is to progress and grow  together with customers, by constantly delivering value so that they will choose our  products and services repeatedly. Based on the motto We consider customers feedback as the beginning of  our manufacturing, we are improving the Basic Qualities and Attractive Qualities provided to customers  through improving the Quality of Products and Services, the Quality of People, and the Quality of  Systems, utilizing a variety of feedback and other information received from customers. Sekisui Chemical Group is working together to pursue quality that will always be specified by customers. Our  Philosophy Sekisui Chemical Group has identified two key performance  indicators for CS & Quality Management. One of these is external  failure costs1 and the other is the number of major quality issues2.  The Midterm Plan (fiscal 2009 – 2013) sets as goals for fiscal 2013  eliminating major quality issues and cutting external failure costs  by 5 billion yen vs. fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2011, two major quality issues arose and we  decreased external failure costs by 3 billion yen from fiscal 2004.  We aim to further cut external failure costs through enhancing  group-wide quality-assurance systems and deploying activities to  reduce quality-related risks. We also will employ design review  thoroughly and make improvements as needed to prevent major  quality issues so they will not occur in the future. CS & Quality Midterm Plan CS & Quality Pursuing quality always specified by  customers, through maximizing the  quality of human resources,  products, and systems The CS & Quality Management Policy and System, e specified by customers. , see Data Book, p. 20, 21 Resolving complaints and claims Construction, sales,  service Collecting  information Research and development Storage, shipping Production Procurement, outsourcing Product planning Product design Production- method design Mass production Maximizing the quality of  human resources, products,  and systems 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Japan Almost all employees, including temporary and part-time  workers, take part in these activities at 60 business sites, both  manufacturing and non-manufacturing. Autonomous activities  such as study meetings on QC methods and QC leader training  are expanding in the workplace. A system  is in place under which multiple  presentation meetings are held  at each business site and sites  that have conducted particu- larly outstanding activities  advance through the division  company presentations to the  Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN  Activities Presentation. Okayama  Sekisui Industry  Co., Ltd. Group KAIZEN Activities Around the World Americas Business sites with long histories of carrying out KAIZEN  activities have reached the stage of further improving their  KAIZEN levels. Sites newly added to Sekisui Chemical Group  are proactively conducting these  activities too. Presentation  Meetings began in the Americas  in fiscal 1992, and in fiscal 2011  10 business sites presented the  result of 11 themes. Since fiscal  2010 Manufacturing Assemblies  have been held as well, sharing  information on the fundamen- tals of manufacturing, such as  safety and information systems. China Activities are underway on themes centered on quality and  productivity. Japans style of KAIZEN activities is being  adopted actively, and postings in the  workplace make the content of  activities visible. Employees  also learn from outstand- ing case studies, for  example through touring  the plants of superior local  firms. Presentation  Meetings began in fiscal  2009 and was participated  in fiscal 2011 by six  business sites. Europe Activities are advancing on themes centered on safety and  quality. Theme guidance meetings also are held, and theme  activities are being deployed in  accordance with QC stories. The  first Presentation Meetings  was held in fiscal 2011,  which was participated by  six business sites on nine  themes. Manufacturing  Assemblies have been held  as well, sharing information  on strengths and issues in  manufacturing through  touring each others plants. Wuxi  SSS-Diamond  Plastics  Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Group  KAIZEN Activities Presentation Meeting The 46th Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Presentation  Meeting was held in Kyoto in January 2012. This event welcomed  participants from 20 groups (16 from Japan and four from overseas)  chosen from individual areas. Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. won  the gold prize for its theme on quality KAIZEN activities for  high-performance thermal insulation materials (see p. 47), while  among overseas sites, Wuxi SSS-Diamond Plastics Co., Ltd. from China  took the bronze prize for its theme on packaging-material cost savings. 1 Group KAIZEN activities Activities that began in 1966 as Quality Control (QC) groups and later evolved into small group activities before taking the form they have today. 2 QC story Improvement procedures advanced step by step to ascertain problems accurately and resolve them with certainty. Group KAIZEN activities1 are an initiative in which employees in each workplace form small groups to make improvements in  production and operational efficiency and product quality improvements. These activities are underway at business sites in  Japan and around the world, centered on production companies. They address QC stories2 and themes for which policies have  been developed, and once each year presentations are held in each area to share information on results in each workplace and  improve each other. These activities are becoming firmly established globally, and in fiscal 2011 KAIZEN activities presentations were held in  each of the following areas: Japan, the Americas, China, and Europe. The Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Presentation,  in which teams chosen from each area announce results to each other, was held in Japan. 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Customers Supporting measures to increase  sensitivity to attractive qualities Providing outstanding products filled  with attractive qualities Screening of attractive qualities  by outside experts Attractive Qualities Screening System Training to improve  product planning abilities Creation School Sharing information on  successful case studies The Story of  Attractive Qualities Thinking more deeply  based on case studies  from other companies CS & Quality seminars Valuing customer  feedback Telephone service  training Outstanding  human resources Outstanding  products Directing external feedback to building systems Directing external feedback to HR  and manufacturing development In fiscal 2008 Sekisui Chemical Group created the  Attractive Qualities Screening System, intended to  have outsiders assess the attractive qualities of the  Groups products1. Under this system, the  Attractive Qualities Screening Committee, consist- ing of four outside experts (chosen from the fields  of product planning, consumers, environmental  nonprofit organizations, and quality control) and  two Directors of Sekisui Chemical, meets every  three years to assess Sekisui Chemical Group  products and choose those outstanding in terms  of attractive qualities. In fiscal 2011, the second time the committee  met, it assessed a total of 10 entries from each  division company and Headquarters on the five  criteria of value to customers, value to society,  individual ability, contributions to business perfor- mance, and appeal, choosing one grand prize  winner and two gold prize winners. 1 Products The Attractive Qualities Screening System  defines products to refer in general to  products, services, and related systems. Attractive Qualities Screening System CS & Quality Advancing development of  systems, human resources, and a culture enabling creation of  attractive qualities In order to generate a succession of products with attractive qualities providing value for customers,  Sekisui Chemical Group is working on building systems for proper assessment of outcomes and  sharing such outcomes broadly inside the organization to increase motivation and developing  human resources and a culture having high levels of sensitivity to the customers point of view. Customer Satisfaction (CS) Participating in this committee gave me a  strong feel for Sekisui Chemical Groups  advantages in R&D and product development  technologies. It provides a very wide variety of  products, ranging from films, adhesives, and  pharmaceuticals through housing, and many of its  products incorporate unique, revolutionary  technologies. I admire the outstanding technological  abilities it has built up in a wide range of fields over  many years. I believe that these themselves are  truly valuable assets that form the underpinnings  of Sekisui Chemical Group. I think in the future it will be able to produce  even better products by deepening its study of  customers potential needs. VOICE Prof. Noriaki Kanda Department of Business  Administration, Faculty of Economics, Seijo University Chairperson, Attractive Qualities  Screening Committee Attractive  Qualities Screening  Committee Winner, Grand Prize,  Second Attractive Qualities Screening System KAITEKI AIRY year-round  air-conditioning/ventilation system Gold Prize (Division Company Prize) Winners NORUDIA N HbA1c diabetes diagnostic reagent CALMMOON high-performance, nonflammable,  easy-to-install noise-proofing material 21 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  HR Development for Attractive Qualities Sekisui Chemical Group has developed four HR development  systems intended to improve sensitivity to creating attractive  qualities. Training to improve product  planning abilities From its start in fiscal 2008 through the end  of fiscal 2011, this training, intended to  improve product planning abilities, has  welcomed a total of 42 trainees. Thinking more deeply based on  case studies from other companies Begun in fiscal 2001, these seminars, intended  to raise awareness of CS & Quality, invite  people from a variety of fields outside the  company to give a lecture. A total of 26  seminars had been held from the start of the  program through the end of fiscal 2011. Valuing customer feedback We are conducting telephone service training, intended  to improve the service level of contact points for  inquiries, continuously since fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2011  this training, aimed at teaching skills for listening and  speaking from the customers point of view, was  conducted a total of 17 times at nine business sites,  with a total of 159 employees taking part. Sharing information on successful case studies The goals of this intranet content on products include increasing the motivation of product  planning and development personnel. It provides introductions to the key points on development  of prize-winning products in the Attractive Qualities Screening System and the value they provide  to customers and society, centered on conversations with the developers. S Th pl of to The Story of  Attractive Qualities qualities. T p Fr of im w Creation School T ca Be to pe co se pr CS  &  Quality seminars V W to in th sp co w ustomers and society, centered on co Telephone  service training Foster a CS Culture Program STAR 55 Sekisui Chemical Group developed the program called STAR 55, intended to foster a  customer-oriented corporate culture, in fiscal 2002, and since then it has strived to  raise awareness among all employees while also enhancing this program. In fiscal  2011, 190 new managers in Sekisui Chemical Group underwent the training program  for leaders. The permeation of awareness of CS & Quality was confirmed through an  attitude survey of trainees. Customer Feedback for Attractive Qualities Sekisui Chemical Group has established Customer Information & Consulting Services in the CSR Department  within Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. and contact points for inquiries in each division company and in each sales  company. In this way, we respond swiftly to inquiries, wishes, and guidance from customers. Information  from customers is collected in the in-house database, Hayamimi Network, for sharing among related parties  and is utilized in improving manufacturing and services. (For a flowchart on Utilizing Customer Feedback in  Management, see Data Book, p. 15) To accelerate these efforts, Customer Information & Consulting Services analyzes the information in the  Hayamimi Network and proposes a variety of improvements to each division company in areas including  products and the descriptions in catalogs and on websites. In fiscal 2011 it made 422 proposals, which  resulted in improvements such as the preparation in the Housing Company of a guide for preventing basic  customer-service errors that could result in complaints. Creation School CS & Quality seminar Telephone service  training 159 FY 2011 number of trainees Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Three Prominences Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Bases of CSR Business and CSR 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Basic Qualities Field Manufacturing Development Decreasing loss costs, or losses and waste arising from quality defects Results of three zeros activities Quality Management Sekisui Chemical Group has developed quality-control systems covering every process from production through  product use by customers. Each section has developed a quality-assurance system, and in each process we promote  controls on a daily basis following the PDCA1 management cycle. In developing products and making improvements  to quality, we conduct screening from a variety of perspectives, such as those of quality assurance and safety. In fiscal  2011, we developed screening standards and check sheets. Our business sites also made progress on becoming  certified under the ISO 9001 standard, as the total number of Sekisui Chemical Group business sites and departments  certified under this standard rose to 95. The number of employees at these ISO 9001-certified business sites and  departments represents 59% of all Sekisui Chemical Group employees. In fiscal 2012, we will focus on development of quality-assurance systems suited to the globalization of business. Seminars on Day-to-day Management In production sections, we hold seminars on everyday management for  manager-class personnel in charge of production and quality control, to raise  awareness among managers in each production workplace and encourage  thorough controls on everyday management. In fiscal 2011 we held a seminar lectured by an outside auditor for Sekisui  Chemical. A total of 46 persons took part in this seminar. We also received advice and proposals on thinking  regarding the PDCA cycle, how to use the implementation procedures for QC stories and cause-and-effect  diagrams2 in everyday business activities, and the ideal forms that Sekisui Chemical Group management and  quality control should take in light of audit results at each division company and plant. CS & Quality 1 PDCA P = Plan (planning), D = Do (implementation, operation), C = Check (checkup, corrective action),  A = Action (improvement, review) 2 Cause-and-effect diagrams Diagrams showing the conceivable causes of an effect, giving consideration to the hierarchical structure of causes Pursuing the three zeros of  Complaints, Accidents  and Wastes Recognizing that it is the fields of manufacturing development that supports quality, since  fiscal 2006 Sekisui Chemical Group has focused its efforts on innovation in production. Based  on its belief that quality defects lead to costs, or losses and waste arising from handling  complaints and increased wastes, we are trying to reduce costs by targeting the three zeros  of complaints, accidents, and wastes. Quality (vs. FY 2008) 7% reduction Claim handling costs (vs. FY 2008) 35% reduction Number of occupational injuries (vs. FY 2008) Decreased by  2 billion yen Loss costs Zero accidents Zero complaints Zero wastes A seminar on  day-to-day  management Verified 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  MONOZUKURI Workplace Leader 1 The 5S process A slogan used in maintenance and improvement of the workplace environment. The five Ss are organization (seiri),  orderliness (seiton), cleaning (seiso), cleanliness (seiketsu), and discipline (shitsuke). Since fiscal 2008 we have held MONOZUKURI Workplace Leader Development/Training Courses on  the subject of the current state of everyday management at production sites. These are events in  which manufacturing-site leader level personnel visit production sites and then, following a site tour,  discuss the themes of 5S1 and visualization. Through observing other business sites and products, and  speaking with participants who work in other sites, attendees can gain insights and knowledge on  practical operations. In fiscal 2011, four sessions were held, with 63 personnel from 26 sites taking part. Aiming to decrease loss costs by raising the standard of manufacturing in the  workplace, the Manufacturing Development Innovation Center, a cross-functional  organization charged with promotion of enhancement of manufacturing development  throughout Sekisui Chemical Group as a whole, has set the target of contributing 20  billion yen to profits in fiscal 2013 (vs. fiscal 2010) and the three priority themes of zero  defects and doubled productivity, halving energy use, and renewing manufacturing  development overseas. Sekisui Chemical Group is striving to reduce product  defects and increase productivity through its own  methods combining quality engineering with  automated controls, based on quality maintenance. For example, in fiscal 2011 Ritto Sekisui Industry  Co., Ltd. began the new initiative of organizing  information on past construction-related defects in  its rehabilitation pipe production lines and assessing  quality risks. Based on the results of this initiative, it  advanced (i) revision of standards, (ii) equipment  improvements, (iii) optimization of manufacturing  conditions, and (iv) automated controls. This has  enabled it to cut the volume of defective products  disposed of as waste by 19 tons vs. last year. Since fiscal 2009, Sekisui Chemical Group has carried  out activities to make improvements based on identi- fying losses from the two perspectives of the functions  its equipment has and the timing of energy inputs.  The goal is to further decrease energy consumption in  production. Five business sites began these activities  during fiscal 2011, bringing the total to 16 sites. A  future goal is to deploy the activities to all business  sites in Japan. In addition, in responding to the need to conserve  electricity during the summer of 2011 a study meeting  was held focusing on cutting electricity used in  lighting, as an effort that could be implemented  group-wide with immediate  effects. Activities carried out  included turning off some  lights while leaving on  only enough for the  amount of lighting  needed and  introducing  LEDs and solar  concentrators. Sekisui Chemical Group began activities to renew manufacturing  development overseas in fiscal 2009, with the goal of strengthen- ing the manufacturing-development foundation and production  capacity at production sites overseas. Through these efforts, it has  advanced production innovations at such sites. In fiscal 2011, it conducted these  activities with a focus on improve- ment abilities and safety abilities.  As an example, in the area of  improvement abilities it held  local plant manager meetings  and, in Europe, KAIZEN  Activities Presentation. Priority Theme Building the Zero-Defect Line:  Zero Defects and Doubled Productivity Priority Theme Energy Saving Activity:  Halving Energy Use Priority Theme Advancing awareness and  production innovations in overseas Site observation during training A production line Solar concentrators  installed in a plant A plant manager  meeting in Europe Activity of the Manufacturing Development Innovation Center 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Three Prominences Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Bases of CSR Business and CSR  Our  Philosophy Raise corporate value by  stimulating diverse human resources Employees are precious assets bestowed on us by society Workplaces where diverse human resources can thrive Rewarding workplaces Prominence in Business and CSR Professional human resources, each with his or her own unique skills Prominent  Human Resources Self-realization Business leaders High-quality, specialized  human resources Global human resources  Productivity at  manufacturing sites Development, designing,  production, construction,  sales, technical services,  after-sales service Corporate  culture fostering  individual learning  and  growth Opportunities  to take on challenges on  ones own Growth and  Commitment As the globalization of its businesses accelerates, the employees who work at Sekisui  Chemical Group are growing more diverse as well. We are advancing efforts to increase  opportunities for more people to thrive on the global stage and to promote creation of  various working styles and safe and secure work environments, respecting the diversity, personalities,  and individuality of our employees in each region. We will put even more effort into human-resources  development in order to realize a strong Sekisui Chemical Group that can continue growing and  demonstrating its presence even 100 years in the future, by addressing head-on the environmental  changes that will occur in the future, such as various changes to the business environments in Japan  and worldwide along with further intensification of competition in global markets.   addition, based on the idea that employees are precious assets bestowed on us by   their jobs with a sense of safety and security and that help them aim for self-fulfillment by    will lead to the growth of the organization and our businesses, we provide our employees   Our Concept of Human Resources Development Human Resources Encouraging Individual  Prominence and Self-Realization,  and Contributing to Society  through Business For the Human Resources and Human Rights Policy and System, al markets. see the Data Book, p. 20, 22 25   Main measures in fiscal 2011 Key theme Efforts Diversity Career development  & evaluation Global talents Group-wide human-resources  development Training of domestic employees  for globalization International recruiting Training of local managers Career training Work-life balance Womens empowerment,  supporting raising the next  generation children Mental-healthcare Results of Main Efforts in Fiscal 2011 Internal job posting  HR management system reforms  13 transfers out of 13 job postings  Deployed to Group companies  Trained career advisors  Held seminars  (total of 20 times/three-year period, with 1,400  attendees in total)  Expanded hiring  Held training for Group companies  (for employees and their supervisors)  Expanded programs in support of raising the  next-generation children  Implemented care for disaster victims  (300 people)  Held training for business sites (five times)  Implemented care for business sites     271 Global Talents employees   (one of Americas largest recruiting events for  international students)     particular (held training programs for specific  employee ranks, internal job posting)   tion of managers of Group companies in China Human Resources Development Midterm Plan  conditions in which each member of its diverse human resources can thrive on the global stage,    In fiscal 2011, together with making progress on developing an environment where human    In the future as well, we will make progress toward realizing the conditions we are aiming for,   26   1 Global Talents employees: Employees capable of thriving on a global stage with not only language  and communication skills and specialization but also the ability to support  and grow business overseas. In preparation for the changing times ahead, to ensure that each and every  employee sees his or her work from a global perspective at all times and has a sense  of mission and responsibility for the companys future, and to pass along and shinka  (evolve) our traditional strengths, it is important to draw and make the most of the  self-growth potential of each individual. Based on this concept, each company in  Sekisui Chemical Group, including those outside Japan, is working to improve the  strength of its human resources toward realizing an enterprise characterized by  sustained growth. Aiming to improve the HR power  of the Group Human Resources Development The business conditions in which Sekisui Chemical  Group operates continue to undergo changes  including the maturing of the Japanese market,  growing demand in emerging countries, advancing  manufacturing abilities in foreign countries, and  rapidly aging population and decreasing birth rates in  Japan. In response, in fiscal 2011 we developed a  system intended to create a strong Sekisui Chemical  Group that can continue demonstrating its presence  even 100 years in the future. This new HR system will  start in July 2012, first targeting full-time employees of  Sekisui Chemical. Clarifying the Human Resources Required  in Two Separate Courses The new HR system consists of two courses: the Business Career Course  focusing on generating human resources who can shoulder core  business responsibilities and the Expert Course focusing on generating  professionals in practical fields. The Business Career Course will facilitate significant growth on the  part of participating employees through familiarizing themselves with  high perspective business execution skills from an early stage. The  Expert Career Course will enable employees to generate results, skills,  and influence in specific fields by familiarizing themselves with  advanced practical abilities through deepening their knowledge and  skills over the long term. Employees also can choose to switch courses  as their careers develop. Global Talents Since 2000, Sekisui Chemical Group has been expanding its  businesses overseas, by opening production facilities  mainly in China and chiefly through mergers and acquisi- tions. The current midterm management plan includes the  target of roughly doubling the percentage of sales  overseas from the fiscal 2011 figure, to 30%. In fiscal 2011,  the number of overseas employees in the group as a  whole totaled approximately 5,100 – about 24% of all  employees. Therefore, Sekisui Chemical Group needs to secure and  train Global Talents employees1 to ensure the groups  sustained growth. Based on this concept, we are advanc- ing the following HR strategies for Global Talents  employees:  (i) Training of domestic employees for globalization  (ii) International recruiting  (iii) Training of local managers FY 2011 Approx. 24% overseas Securing global human resources to support  and grow businesses overseas Overseas advancement  of production facilities Overseas business development  through mergers and  acquisitions and other means Global training of  Japanese employees Globalization of hiring Training management- level human resources  at overseas sites Globalization of business Number of employees overseas Global Talents Human Resources 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  1 Boston Career Forum A Japanese-English bilingual job fair begun in 1987. More than 5,000 people take part in this event each year. HR Activities and Future Developments Training of Domestic Employees for Globalization A total of 1,558 Group employees in Japan have signed up for the Global  Employee System intended to train Global Talents employees. These employ- ees underwent training on different cultures and specialized training as needed  for overseas assignment. Sekisui Chemical Group also has established the Global Trainee Program,  which enables participants to build up real-world experience overseas. This  program provides employees with experience in doing business overseas by  sending applicants with sufficient levels of experience from specific positions  such as sales, accounting, and development to positions at overseas affiliates. Through these activities, we aim to increase the number of Japanese  employees immediately ready to serve in overseas to 300 by fiscal 2013 (from a  number of 271 in fiscal 2011). International Recruiting The effort of Sekisui Chemical Group in addition to global training of Japanese employees is aggressive  hiring of human resources with experience living overseas, such as foreign exchange students and  non-Japanese candidates. In particular, we continue to hire large numbers of international students  from Japan at the Boston Career Forum1, the largest Japanese-English bilingual job fair in the United  States, where we have taken part since fiscal 2008. In hiring of new university graduates in Japan as  well, we are providing introductions to the globalization of our businesses and clearly identifying  Global Talents employees as one of the ideal types of human resources we seek to hire.  As a result, the percentage of new graduates joining the company in fiscal 2012 with experience  living overseas was 27%, and we plan to advance activities to hire foreign exchange students and  non-Japanese candidates as we aim to increase this percentage to 40% in fiscal 2013. Using the Global Trainee Program, I was assigned to Kydex, LLC. in the  U.S., where I worked on validation, using actual large production  equipment, of fire-resistant plastic sheets developed in Japan. While this  was a tough environment in which I needed to overcome not just  technical but also cultural and communication hurdles, I was able to  acquire the skills needed to work overseas, such as a spirit of enterprise  and bargaining ability. I think a benefit of the trainee program is the way it improves both  language and practical abilities. Just learning a language overseas simply  provides the student with a tool to use, but putting the tool of language to  full use in practice to build relations of trust with staff overseas gave me  considerable self-confidence. VOICE Kenichi Hatanaka Kyoto Research & Development  Laboratories Technology & Development  Division Urban Infrastructure & Environ- mental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Number of Japanese Employees  as Global Talent employees 149employees (FY) 2009 2011 271employees Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Three Prominences Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Bases of CSR Business and CSR 28 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Training of Local Managers In fiscal 2011, Sekisui Chemical Group conducted training of local managers in China and the  United States. In China, we held management innovation training intended to further raise the levels of  managers knowledge and skills. Twelve managers took part in this training. In this training,  managers analyze the gaps between self-recognition and multifaceted evaluations and learn  insights for future reforms. In addition, in the U.S. we established a new HR function at Sekisui America Corporation,  the area headquarters company, and held training on management by objectives (MBO) for  local managers, to share information on the policy management of Sekisui Chemical Group  (62 persons underwent this training) and training on cross-cultural communication intended  to enable smooth organizational management through understanding the histories and  backgrounds of different cultures (41 persons underwent this training). Furthermore, in  addition to introducing job posting system that shares information on HR needs among  Group companies so that employees can apply for jobs they would like to try as part of its  career development efforts, it also has begun training sessions for employees stationed in the  U.S. to enable them to practice proper management based on a correct understanding of  U.S. law. In the future, we will focus our efforts on leadership education for managers and  initiatives toward strengthening local hiring. Supporting Employees Stationed Overseas In deciding on the timing of assigning employees overseas and bringing them back, it is  very important that the company properly understand the taxation systems of individual  countries. At the same time, we also consider it to be very important when deploying  business globally, that employees stationed overseas properly submit tax returns and  carry out various procedures related to their assignment and return. For these reasons, in fiscal 2011 Sekisui Chemical Group surveyed the taxation systems  of the 14 countries where it has assigned personnel and prepared a handbook for  understanding taxation systems for personnel on overseas assignment, distributing it to  the employees and their supervisors. Over the past year, the 14 North American Sekisui companies have worked  together closely to discuss and develop common HR programs, which have  generated considerable results. The common programs include  inter-company job posting, leadership training, a recruiting website,  relocation guidelines, a global ID badge system, and CSR activities. The  leadership training included both MBO and intercultural communication  training, and it has received very good feedback from managers who appreci- ated its benefit. The inter-company job postings have already been  implemented and have been very well received by employees. As we look forward, we are excited about continuing common  programs and starting operations of new programs within North America.  These programs help to create synergies and opportunities that are  difficult to establish within the individual businesses. VOICE Joel V. Anderson Human Resources Department Sekisui Specialty Chemicals  America, LLC Management  innovation  training  in China 29 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Sekisui Chemical Group carries out training for specific employee ranks, providing a variety of  options corresponding to employees positions and skills, based on the following four pillars:  acquisition of skills and knowledge, which helps improve communication, technical skills,  business literacy, and other aptitudes; support for career development, which supports  employees taking a positive approach to developing their own careers; efforts to address  midterm priority themes, such as development of frontier-oriented human resources, business  leaders, global human resources, and specialist human resources; and CSR training to ensure  thorough adherence to CSR management policies. Example of Employee Education Program Since fiscal 2010 Sekisui S-LEC (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. has supported employee education using a training  program held at the Suzhou city library. Its goal is to improve employee retention. The program employs a  system under which employees can take part voluntarily, and its curriculum covers a broad range of areas,  from basic knowledge such as business etiquette through specialized fields. It makes it possible for  employees to undergo training freely, during working hours, on any subject that they think would facilitate  their own growth. In fiscal 2011 a total of 80 employees took part in this training. Activities and Future Developments Sekisui Chemical Group holds Sekisui Innovation  School led by Sekisui Chemical operating officers as  the headmaster to train leaders who will be respon- sible for the Groups future. In fiscal 2011, 67 young  employees took part diligently in this training, led by  eight headmasters. In addition, in order for each individual employee  to think about his or her own medium- to long-term  career plan, the Age-wise Career Plan Training is  provided according to the career stages of each  employee (up to three years after joining the company  and the ages of 30, 40, 50, and 55 years). In fiscal 2011  this training was expanded to cover employees of  Group companies as well, providing support for independent career planning by employees. Furthermore, 103 career advisors at 54 business sites play an important role in human-resources  development in Sekisui Chemical Group. To support and promote their activities, we also provide support  for career advisors themselves, through means such as training by outside experts and establishing  opportunities for interaction with key persons providing career support at other companies. Beginning in  fiscal 2012, we will expand these activities to Group companies. Human Resources The theme of the Innovation School I attended  was Next MONOZUKURI SHINKA. In this class,  we made clear what makes up Sekisui  Chemicals prominence and what should be  the subject of shinka (evolution). I think that  the way we were able to give form to our  ideas on these subjects, reflecting the  thoughts of those in the school, was a very  valuable experience. In the future as well, I  would like to advance my own practice of  MONOZUKURI SHINKA. VOICE Masahiro Nishii Building Materials Production  Department, Tokyo Plant Urban Infrastructure & Environ- mental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Developing training programs for individual job levels Building goal-oriented training systems Acquisition of skills  and knowledge  Frontier-oriented   human resources  Business leaders  Global human   resources  Specialist human   resources Support for career  development CSR training Midterm  priority themes New employees Third year with  the company Managerial  positions Core  management Fostering a Culture in which  Employees Learn and Grow on Their  Own through Support for Career Plans Career Development & Evaluation Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Three Prominences Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Bases of CSR Business and CSR 30 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Work-Life Balance Sekisui Chemical Group believes that a work-life  balance is realized through self-improvement  outside working hours in addition to fulfilling  work, and that by utilizing the new experiences,  knowledge and values employees have gained  outside the workplaces, company can further  grow and develop. Based on this concept, we  actively promote the realization of a sound  work-life balance. In fiscal 2011, for the understanding and  raising awareness of Sekisui Chemical Groups  concept of work-life balance, seminars at  individual business sites were held in addition to  regular training and seminars. Womens Empowerment Sekisui Chemical Group is working on empowerment of women throughout the group, so that  highly motivated women can continue to work with vitality. This is intended to cultivate a more  flexible corporate culture in response to diversifying market needs as well as the decreasing popula- tion of the workforce as a result of low birth rates and the aging population. The main activity in fiscal 2011 was career-planning training for young employees, provided to  younger employees in their first through fourth years with the company, regardless of gender. A  management seminar on working with younger subordinates was held as well, for these employees  superiors. In this way, we strived proactively to support the development of younger employees,  including men. At the same time, we also held management seminars on women subordinates, in  which supervisors of women employees learned about HR development and guidance including  balancing womens work and life events, and career design seminars for women housing-sales  personnel. As diversification of values advances rapidly in connection with economic and  social globalization, Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing a variety of efforts aimed  at building workplaces where diverse human resources can work with peace of  mind. This is intended to respond to changes in the business environment and to  achieve the further growth of the group itself. In addition, we have established respect for diversity as the clear motto of  our Human Resources and Human Rights Policy, aiming to build workplaces  where everybody can thrive with vitality while doing rewarding work, regardless  of factors such as gender, nationality, age, or type of employment. We continue  building an understanding and raising awareness of these values among  employees, through training, various seminars, and other activities. Advancing a variety of initiatives to  build workplaces where employees  can thrive with vitality Human Resources fe s, d to  Realizing a sound work-life balance Individual self-realization Sustained business growth Personal life  Self-development  Home life, health  Leisure time, etc. Social life  Community activities  Voluntary activities  PTA activities, etc. Efficiency Modulation Efficiency Modulation Diverse experiences Individual (self) Growth Growth Growth Rewarding work Motivation in life Energy for tomorrow Diverse values Work life  Prominence in work  True feelings of growth  Teamwork Creating new value Improving skills and  motivation Creating new value Improving skills and  motivation Decent Work and Diversity 31 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Supporting Raising the Next-Generation Children To ensure that the careers of highly motivated women employees will not be cut short by life  events and to enhance systems in support of raising children and create a culture in which  such systems are easy to use, so that men too can use them actively, Sekisui Chemical Group  has carried out efforts including opening up a special-purpose intranet site, making superiors  aware of the system, and  producing a guidebook. In fiscal 2011, lunch meetings  were held at three sites for young  women employees who want to  continue fulfilling careers after  childbirth and women employees  currently caring for children. These  meetings succeeded in providing  tips on balancing a career and  raising children and in lessening  feelings of uncertainty. Healthcare of Employees Under the subject heading Creating Safe and Secure Work Environments, Sekisui Chemical  Groups Basic Policy on Human Resources (see Data Book, p. 22) states, We promote  employees health enhancement and mental health care. In addition, in fiscal 2011 we  established a policy on mental and physical health management, enhanced follow-up activities  after health checkups at each business site, and provided mental-health education. In addition, in fiscal 2010 we established the Sekisui Support Center, whose main activities  include providing Group employees with consultation and support on career and mental- health matters. This includes providing individual counseling on subjects including responses  to the Great East Japan Earthquake, conducting e-learning, holding group training, and holding  seminars for senior executives. The center also has a consulting contract with a clinic of  psychosomatic medicine and promotes development of healthy, comfortable workplaces in  cooperation with the Japan Industrial Counselors Association. Policy on mental and physical health management  Employees shall consciously take steps to protect their own health, and the company shall support such  health enhancement efforts  Health enhancement efforts shall be made in the areas of both mental healthcare and physical healthcare  (follow-up on health checkups)  These efforts shall be incorporated into the occupational health and safety management system  (OHSMS) and advanced by business sites themselves. Human Rights Sekisui Chemical Groups Human Resources and Human Rights Policy prohibits harassment. One example of efforts taken under this prohibition is the harassment training session  conducted at Sekisui Polymatech Co., Ltd. in February 2012 for all employees, including all  temporary employees, with a focus on everyday business activities. This session was based  on the Compliance Manual and the Guidelines on Preventing Harassment. In this session,  instead of employing lectures alone, efforts were made to enrich the content through  means including exchange of opinions among participants, based on check lists, and  providing opportunities for women to exchange opinions freely. This meeting was very helpful in the way I was able to  learn from my seniors, who are working mothers, about  the concept behind the systems in support of raising  children, expertise about using these systems  effectively, actual examples of balancing a career and  raising children, and tips and hints for balancing  them well. In addition, participants interacted broadly  with each other as well, and even now I find these  contacts helpful in sharing information and  forming networks. VOICE Megumi Nishi Kinki Public Sector Sales Office Public Sector Value Chain Sales  Department Nishinihon Sales Headquarters Urban Infrastructure & Environ- mental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Three Prominences Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Bases of CSR Business and CSR 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  2 OHSMS (Occupational Health and Safety Management System) Activities to manage occupational health and safety and reduce risks through implementing risk  assessment for the workplace as a whole and running through the plan-do-check-act (PDCA)  management cycle, based on occupational health and safety policies. Education and training  Education/training/  development efforts Equipment  Intrinsic safety of equipment Management  OHSMS Risk prevention  Risk assessment  Risk detection (KY) efforts  Prevention of risky acts   (HH) activities  5S activities Auditing  Health, safety and accident-prevention auditing Aiming to build a global culture of zero workplace accidents Safety Midterm Plan Japan In fiscal 2011, the number of occupational  accidents at sites in Japan fell by 10% from the  previous year, thanks to the contributions of  efforts to strengthen safety management at  some production sites. In addition, a Safety  Subcommittee was set up under the CSR  Committee to ensure safety activities are  conducted thoroughly throughout the Sekisui  Chemical Group and promote such activities.  Efforts to raise employees safety awareness will  continue toward the goal of building a structure  for zero work-related accidents in fiscal 2012. Safety Audits At sites in Japan, second-party certification of OHSMS2 is being conducted,  with 41 sites having been certified as of the end of March 2012. Also, results  of the periodic self-auditing that began in fiscal 2010 showed that the  number of sites that had not reached the base level (70 points) had halved  from 17 sites in fiscal 2010 to eight in fiscal 2011. Furthermore, results of  safety audits of 33 sites in Japan showed that in general the state of safety  management was a good one. The safety investigations that began in fiscal 2010 at overseas sites had  been conducted at 30 sites through fiscal 2011. Constructing a work environment in which employees can work with safety and security is  one of the most important subjects for management. Sekisui Chemical Group is implementing  total safety (i.e., zero occupational injuries, zero equipment-related accidents, zero  commuting-related accidents, and zero extended sick leave) activities based on five themes1. 1 Five themes Intrinsic safety of equipment, management using OHSMS, safety education of employees, risk prevention through KY activities  and other initiatives, and auditing of health, safety, and accident prevention. Five Pillars of Occupational Health, Safety,  and Accident-prevention Activities Safety For the Safety Policies and Management System,, see Data Book, p. 20, 22 Human Resources Midterm Plan (FY 2009 – 2013) Midterm goal: Completing development of a  corporate culture based on zero workplace accidents  Sites in Japan: Completing development of a structure   for zero workplace accidents by the end of fiscal 2012  Overseas sites: Completing development of a structure   for zero workplace accidents by the end of fiscal 2013 33 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Activities of Production Sites in Japan Activities of Construction Sites in Japan Safety Conference In July 2011, the Sekisui Chemical Group Safety Conference was  held at the Kyoto Research & Development Laboratories. A total of  188 employees and members of management took part in  activities including the annual safety awards and introductions to  examples of safety activities  by sites with superior safety  performance, resolving as a  group to building a culture  of zero workplace  accidents. Plans call for  holding Safety Conferences  in four areas overseas  (Europe, the Americas, Asia/Pacific, and China)  beginning in fiscal 2012. Accident-prevention Risk Assessments Risk assessments to lessen the risk of fire or explosion, which could  cause significant damage, have been underway since the second  half of fiscal 2009. At production sites, institutes, and laboratories in  Japan, these assessments had identified 820 risks by August 2011,  and plans call for completion of improvements to these risks by  fiscal 2013. Developing Human Resources with Strong Safety Skills Site Leaders Training has been underway since fiscal 2010 to train  leaders capable of identifying and improving risks. This training is  provided for personnel in leadership positions on the front lines of  worksites, and helps them recognize the importance of their roles,  through confirmation of laws, regulations, and other requirements,  understanding the causes of workplace accidents, and exercises in  patrols and improvements. In fiscal 2011, 269 persons underwent  this training at 13 sites. Achieving Intrinsic Safety of Equipment To make the Equipment Safety Design Standard that went into  effect in fiscal 2005 more effective, in fiscal 2011 we developed an  operation manual to aid in understanding the intents and  objectives of the standards. In addition, Basic Safety Standard  Check Sheets were adopted for efficient checking of compliance  with the standards. Safety Efforts in Accordance with Business  Characteristics Construction supervisors, who take leadership at Sekisui Heim  erection sites, need communication skills to advance construction  while coordinating with numerous partner companies as well as a  high sensitivity to risk. For this reason, since fiscal 2010 the Housing  Company has implemented Site Leaders Training for Construction  Sections, with 114 persons from eight sites taking part during fiscal  2011. In addition, the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products  Company, which is involved in a wide range of businesses from  large scale construction projects such as culvert rehabilitation and  construction of water-processing facilities to small scale construc- tion of modular bath installation, is advancing efforts to create safe  working environments through sharing information on good and  bad examples from construction site safety investigation and  related improvements. Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. Won the Japan Industrial  Safety and Health Association Chairmans Award Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. won the Japan Industrial Safety and  Health Association Chairmans Award at the 70th National Industrial  Safety and Health Convention held in October 2011. It won this  award for its outstanding results serving as a model for other  firms, through in-house deployment of activities toward zero  injuries in which all employees took part and endeavored to build  safe, comfortable workplaces with vitality, under the strong resolve  of top management. Activities of Production Sites Overseas Global Safety Enhancement Program As of March 2011, the number of overseas production sites of  Sekisui Chemical Group totaled 52, more than the number of  production sites, institutes, and laboratories in Japan (49 sites),  and their number is expected to grow in the future as well.  Securing safety at these sites is an important topic in manage- ment, and safety investigation conducted at 17 sites showed that  there were some overlooking of sources of risks that could lead to  accidents and delays in making improvements. Improvement  activities will advance in the future to prevent serious accidents  before they occur. In addition, to raise the level of safety management, safety  training is being held in China and training is underway for top  management and personnel with responsibility for safety at  business sites. Safety Education DVD We have prepared and distributed to every site, a DVD for use in  safety education, communicating in 13 languages practical  information on examples of workplace accidents and measures to  prevent their reoccurrence. These are being used to further raise  awareness on safety efforts, by showing them not just to  employees of overseas sites but to non-Japanese employees at  sites in Japan as well. Participants  from sites that  won safety  awards A safety  instruction  scene in the  DVD for use  in safety  education Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Three Prominences Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Bases of CSR Business and CSR 34 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Business  and CSR Based on the midterm  management plan, each  division company strives to  realize the Three Prominences Group Vision Midterm Management Plan GS21-SHINKA!  Environment Environment-Contributing  Products Reducing environmental  load Quality Safety CS & Quality Customer Satisfaction (CS) Human  Resources Human Resources  Development In 2009, Sekisui Chemical Group formulated its group vision, identifying the  ideal form the group would aim to achieve over the medium to long term. To realize this group vision, it develops management strategies  centered on midterm management plans. In fiscal 2009, Sekisui Chemical Group formulated the midterm management  plan GS21-SHINKA! covering the period through the 2013 fiscal year. Under  this plan, with the goal of being a prominent, highly profitable leading  company, we will implement our Frontier SHINKA efforts through global  deployment and deployment across the value chain and developing new  growth segments, along with innovations in production (Manufacturing  SHINKA) and human resources (HR SHINKA). Our business strategies call for establishing what we call the Frontier 7 –  seven high-growth fields including the IT, automotive, and medical fields and  the pipe rehabilitation and residential environment businesses – and focusing  our efforts on these as leading businesses of the future. Through prominence in technology and quality, Sekisui Chemical  Group will contribute to improving the lives of the people of the  world and the earths environment, by continuing to open up new  frontiers in residential and social infrastructure creation and  chemical solutions. Housing Company Frontier SHINKA HR SHINKA Manufacturing SHINKA Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Next- generation businesses Realization of the Group Vision A prominent, highly profitable leading company Frontier 7 Core businesses Residential and Social Infrastructure Creation Chemical Solutions Efforts of Division Companies Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 35   Zero Energy Cost House, Smart  Heim (p. 38, 40)  Installing solar power genera- tion systems on existing Sekisui  Heim homes  Pipeline renewal method  Ground thermal energy system  (p. 46)  Wastewater thermal energy  system (p. 46)  Reducing wastes at production  sites  Reducing energy consumption  through efficiency of production  equipment (p. 46)  High-performance solar-control  and noise-control interlayer  films  Advancell EM thermally  expandable microsphere (p. 52)  Eco paper core kraft tape (p. 52)  Recycled plastic products  Reducing energy consumption  through efficiency of produc- tion equipment (p. 52)  Environment-friendly equip- ment renovations (p. 53)  Reducing wastes at new  construction sites  Use of recovered cement as  vibration control weight (p. 40)  Reducing energy consumption  through efficiency of production  equipment  Improving quality assurance in  the value chain  Reducing running defects at  production site (p. 47)  Group KAIZEN activities (p. 53)  Promotion of QC qualification  test  Organizing records of homes  Quality-assurance system  Water environmental improve- ments (p. 44)  Expanding pipeline renewal  system globally (p. 45)  Full automated pipeline renewal  system (p. 47)  High-performance UV-blocking  interlayer films  NORUDIA N HbA1 diabetes  diagnostic reagent (p. 21)  Hot-melt adhesive for hygienic  products  Dialogue with Customers (p. 41)  Customer Centers (p. 41)  Resident surveys  Sekisui Heim with advanced  air-conditioning/ventilation  system (p. 41) Housing Company Urban Infrastructure  & Environmental  Products Company High Performance  Plastics Company 37 43 49  HR training for the value chain  business (p. 48)  HR training (p. 54)  Sales personnel training (p. 42)  Expanding hiring of women  employees  Conducting Safety Training  (p. 48)  Safety investigations and safe  work environments at construc- tion sites  Safety training  Safety of chemical substances  (p. 54)  Safety awareness-raising  activities at production plants  (p. 42)  Safety education at construc- tion sites Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 36  Economic performance Comfort Environmental performance Disaster- prevention features Main issues concerning homes Transporting modular units Construction site Production plants Kitchens, Modular bath units Solar panels, Plumbing, Wiring, etc. Construction business partners Main materials Other materials, equipment, devices, etc. Sekisui Chemical Group Newly built homes Fami S (Remodeling business) Lumber Steel frame Plasterboard Glass wool Efficient Utilization of Resources Ef of Important theme Important theme Important theme Important theme Important theme p. 40 Preventing accidents in production and construction  p. 42 Sales-personnel education and training p. 42 Quality assurance in production and  construction Energy conservation during home use p. 40 Safety To Realize Customers Ideal Homes With high performance and reliable quality produced at plants, Sekisui Heim  responds to the changing times and diverse needs that vary in areas such as family  structure, locale, and living environment – for those seeking budget-conscious  homes that keep down utilities and repair costs, homes in which they can live in  comfort year long with little change in temperature, homes that will protect their  families and property from threats such as typhoons, earthquakes, fire, and crime,  homes that will help resolve the uncertainties and burdens of raising children,  homes in which they can live in peace of mind even in old age, and homes that  give consideration to the future of the environment – by providing homes in  which anybody can continue to live with peace of mind for years to come. Housing Company Providing environment-friendly  homes that can be lived in safely  and comfortably for more than  60 years. 37 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Supplying Heim with comfort, safety and security through plant production and empirical testing Su co th an 2 Source Sekisui Chemical estimate Proposing Balance Between Ecology and Economy 1 Box-Rahmen Structure A modular structure in which steel pillars and beams are joined together in a box shape, so that   even a single unit can demonstrate strength like that of a shelter against massive earthquakes. 120,000 80,000 40,000 0 2011 (Year) (Homes) 119,500 1998 1999 2001 2002 2003 2004 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2000 2005 Number of Homes Sold with Solar Power Generation Systems (Cumulative) A Sekisui Heim production line Aseismic empirical testing The basic need that people seek to fill in a home, as the foundation of  everyday living, is that of enabling each member of the family to live  each day in comfort and peace of mind. Through a strong structure called Box-Rahmen Structure,1 realized  through modular construction, and use of exterior wall materials and  roofing materials with outstanding fireproofing and waterproofing  performance, Sekisui Heims homes demonstrate their strengths in the  event of emergencies such as earthquakes, typhoons, and fires. In  addition, by combining together efficient air-conditioning and ventila- tion systems based on high levels of thermal insulation and airtightness,  they realize comfortable spaces with little differences in temperature  throughout the house. It is Sekisui Heims unique home-building methods that support  such outstanding fundamental home performance. In the development  stage, Sekisui Heim verifies performance through tests including various  testing of materials and full-scale testing. In the erection stage, it ensures  quality meets planned levels through producing the majority of the  building at plants. As prevention of global warming becomes a topic of  concern around the world, there is a need for environmental  considerations, including reducing CO2 emissions in homes  as well. A look at the entire life cycle of a home from  procurement of materials through construction, living in the  home, demolition, and disposal or recycling, shows that CO2  emissions during living in the home account for a share of 60  – 80%2 of total emissions, and as such there is a strong need  to reduce these emissions. Together with its customers, Sekisui Heim has strived to  reduce use of electricity in the home, for example by being  prompt at working on installing solar power generation  systems that put natural energy to use. The Zero-Utility-Cost  House, which greatly reduces CO2 emissions from energy  used for living, and keeps down annual utility costs, can be  described as a home that achieves balance between ecology  and economy. Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Business and CSR Three Prominences Bases of CSR 38 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  SumStock broker-sold homes2 Power storage system Home appliances Large- capacity solar power PC Smart Heim conceptual diagram Sixty-year Long-term Support System 6 months 1 yr. 2 yrs. 15 yrs. 5 yrs. 35 yrs. 40 yrs. 45 yrs. 50 yrs. 55 yrs. 60 yrs. 30 yrs. 20 yrs. 25 yrs. 10 yrs. Periodic diagnostics conducted every five years thereafter Periodic inspection Periodic diagnostics Smart Heim Navi (HEMS with consulting services) Smart Heim Navi (HEMS with consulting services) Date of hand over Six-month periodic inspection First-year periodic inspection Second-year periodic inspection Fifth-year periodic diagnostics Tenth-year periodic diagnostics Fifteenth-year periodic diagnostics Twentieth-year periodic diagnostics Sixtieth-year periodic diagnostics In todays Japan, where reviewing the supply of and demand for  electricity is an issue of concern along with the need to counter  global warming, controlling the volume of electricity used in  living activities is growing in importance. However, it is not easy  to continue energy-conservation activities to the level that they  lower the quality of life. What homebuilders need to do is to  provide sustainable1 homes that balance comfort with energy  conservation. To respond to such demands of society, Sekisui Heim has  further advanced the Zero-Utility-Cost House concept to increase  customer awareness of the environment and economics through  standard installation of the Smart Heim Navi, which uses advanced information technology to make  home energy use visible. The buildup of energy-conservation activities in individual customers homes  (in fiscal 2011 the ratio of zero utilities costs was 80%) will make considerable contributions to  conservation of electricity throughout society as a whole. Furthermore, in 2012 we began proposing Shin Smart Heim houses that combine Smart Heim  with large-capacity solar power generation and storage cells, to generate and store a full supply of  electricity. These will contribute to realizing a sustainable society through leveling use of electricity  over the year and throughout society as a whole. Sekisui Heim 384 homes3 42.8% Company A 238 homes 26.5% Company B 111 homes 12.4% Company C 56 homes 6.3% Six other groups 12.0% 2 Graph figures are for the period August 2008 – February 2012. 3 Of the 897 homes sold by the 10 groups that are SumStock members,  384 were sold by the Sekisui Heim real estate group. (As of February 2012, according to Sekisui Chemical research)  1 Sustainable   Able to continue perpetually while maintaining current conditions, without destroying the environment Homes need to be able to maintain their functions and performance  unchanging over time so that their residents can continue to live in  them in comfort and peace of mind for a long time and leave them to  the next generation as assets to society. Sekisui Heim supports residents in living in their homes for 60  years from when they first move in, through detailed periodic  inspections and diagnostics conducted six months, one year, two  years, and five years after moving in and then every five years thereaf- ter. In addition, through keeping records of home use including  maintenance as needed based on the resident database system  distinctive of industrialized houses and of renovation to meet changes  in family structure and lifestyle, it can increase the asset value of homes  as residential stock. From Ecology to Sustainability Housing Company Supporting Customers Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 39  Environ- ment Environ- ment The most important characteristics of Smart Heim  homes are visualization and consulting services.  After starting development from a clean slate in  2007, we faced difficulties day after day as things  did not go as planned. With the cooperation and  advice of many people both inside and outside  the company, we finally were able to complete the  project in April 2011. While the road was a long one,  I believe that these homes combine together the  expertise we have built up through now in homes  installed with solar power generation systems and the  resourcefulness of Sekisui Chemical Group. We will continue to evolve the Smart Heim homes in  the future as well, to provide homes that balance  environmental concerns with comfort. The Gunma site of Sekisui Board Co., Ltd., which produces exterior panels  made of cement and wood chips, is promoting recycling of remnants  generated in the manufacturing process, as one part of its efforts toward zero  waste emissions. After breaking down and sorting the remnants on site, wood  chips are reused as raw materials, while recycling of cement was outsourced  to an off-site recycling processor. After studying reuse of this cement with Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co.,  Ltd., the decision was made to use it as raw materials for vibration control  anchors, used to control floor vibration. Traditionally, these anchors have been  produced by cutting and gluing plasterboard, but the two companies were  able to realize the high specific gravity needed for the anchors through  combining the recovered cement with other materials and pressing them.  This results in not just reducing wastes transported off company premises, but  also leads to cost benefits in areas such as raw material costs. We will strive to put resources to effective use through efforts such as  these in the future as well. In 2011, the Housing Company began sale of  Smart Heim homes installed with Smart Heim  Navi, which represents further progress on  balancing ecology and economy. It sold  approximately 10,000 of these homes through  April 2012. Smart Heim Navi measures the state  of energy use in the home in detail and makes  it visible, as well as using data on energy use  accumulated through supplying homes with  solar-power generation to provide advice on  the optimal ways of using equipment and on  methods of reducing utilities costs. This makes  it possible to eliminate wasteful use of  electricity without sacrificing comfort. Through this series of activities, we realize  energy savings of approximately 10% and  15-20% reductions in utilities costs (according  to empirical testing by Sekisui Chemical). VOICE Masato Oota Technology Department Housing Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Business and CSR Three Prominences Bases of CSR A Smart Heim Navi screen Recovered cement Vibration control materials Anchors Smart Heim Navi Use of Recovered as Vibration Control Weight  Examples of Activities Housing Company Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 40  200 100 2.0 4.0 0 0 Heater floor heating (Class 1 ventilation) (Thousand yen) (Tons) Approx. 157 thousand yen Approx. 86 thousand yen Approx. 1.7 tons Approx. 3.2 tons Heat-pump floor heating (Class 1 ventilation) KAITEKI AIRY (Class 1 ventilation) Approx. 71 thousand yen Approx. 1.4 tons The Housing Company has established an Owner Support Division as a specialized organiza- tion to enhance the customer support system. The Owner Support Division set up Customer Centers across Japan to enable customers  living in Sekisui Heim to continue living with further comfort and peace of mind, and to  provide them with a place where they can consult freely on any subject. It completed the  process of setting up these centers in fiscal 2011. Since fiscal 2005, top management of the Housing Company and housing sales companies have been  holding CAT1 Meetings in which they receive feedback from customers directly. In fiscal 2011, these  meetings gathered feedback from a total of 4,306 customers (2,600 households). Information learned in  dialogue with customers is used for purposes such as improvements to equipment and machinery,  improvements to the tools used in explaining products, and enhancement of periodic inspections. Sekisui Heims KAITEKI AIRY air-conditioning and ventilation  systems for use year-long supply high-quality air to the  entire home year-long and realize a stable air environment,  through combining heating, cooling, and dehumidification  units in the space beneath the floor with ventilation  systems. KAITEKI AIRY has won the grand prize in the Attractive  Qualities Screening System, a system in which outsiders  assess the attractive qualities of the Groups products (see  p. 21). In the selection and judging process, it was  evaluated to be highly unique on points such as its focus  on not just comfortable temperature and humidity but the  quality of air as well, and the way it avoids impacting room  layout or building structure by making use of the consider- able space under the floor that is a characteristic of  modular construction. We worked on this system with the high  goal of realizing both energy conserva- tion and comfort all year long, not just  during winter, by putting to use the  benefits of Sekisui Heim. For this  reason, it was a very difficult develop- ment process, involving tasks such as  testing new functions and efforts to achieve  thorough cost savings. Still, after introducing Kaiteki Airy, the  system was used in many more homes than  we had targeted starting in its first fiscal year,  that the difficulty was worth it. In the future we  would like to make it an even more comfortable  product through reflecting customer and sales  feedback in even greater detail. VOICE Toru Suzuki Sales Department,  Housing Division, Housing Company Sekisui Chemical  Co., Ltd. 1 CAT  The term comes from the first letters of the words Customer And Top management. Comparison of Annual Utilities Costs and CO2 Emissions (Tokyo) (Based on Sekisui Chemical Research) Sekisui Heim with Advanced Air-Conditioning and Ventilation Systems Expanding the Number of Customer Centers Dialogue with Customers CS & Quality Examples of Activities Housing Company CS & Quality CS & Quality Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 41  (%) 2011 2010 Yes 0 20 40 60 80 100 No 95.0 5.0 14.5 85.0 At production plants, which shoulder the bulk of housing construction,  workers need to be able to handle each of a large number of diverse  parts and materials based on accurate knowledge. In addition, since  versatile work is required as well, the scope of activities at a production  site is broad ranging, and ensuring safety is an important issue. Based on this recognition, Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. has  strived to increase sensitivity to safety and to develop a culture in which  people place importance on safety, through activities including Morale  Improvement Training and Site Leaders Training. In fiscal 2011, the company enlivened voluntary improvement  activities through reforms to safety awareness, with  manufacturing site leaders playing a central role. These  efforts established 12 specific points over the year on  subjects such as whether lessons from similar accidents at  Sekisui or other firms are deployed horizontally and whether  the hand positions are made clear when working with tools  such as riveters, tackers, and nailers. Improvements were  advanced with the participation of all employees in all  workplaces. Thanks to such activities, the company achieved  a level of zero injuries in fiscal 2011. In the housing sales business, the quality of the human resources of sales personnel who interact directly with  customers is very important. Not only do they need the abilities to communicate and to propose solutions, but  they are also required to have a broad range of specialized knowledge in areas such as products, laws, taxes, and  funding. Also essential are efforts to absorb the latest information at all times, since laws, taxes, and other related  matters are amended constantly. In the Housing Company, as numbers of younger sales personnel increase along with business growth,  improving this quality of human resources is becoming a pressing need. For this reason, since fiscal 2009 we have  continued to conduct each year a unique education program called Eco Heim Testing. This testing teaches general knowledge needed in sales, such as basic knowledge of housing sales and  knowledge of our products, in the format of a  test of 100 or more questions. In principle, all  sales personnel take part. These efforts support  activities to receive orders by maintaining the  level of knowledge of sales personnel. VOICE Sales Personnel Training Eco Heim Test Post Survey Do you think the information you learned  in this Eco Heim Testing is useful? Safety Awareness-raising Activities at Production Plants Instructions and guidance to protect  subordinates from accidents are  essential in the workplace. Site Leaders  Training, which ensures safety  awareness to take firm root in actual  site leaders, has been intended to  improve the abilities to communicate,  act, and move quickly in the actual  workplace as topics for subordinates and to  create a culture in which rules are followed.  Future training will promote development of  human resources who can speak freely about  anything, by designating a person in charge of  safety out of ordinary team members. g Human Resources Main Efforts  Making clear the operation methods of risky acts identified from  day to day  Preparing procedures and key points for similar tasks for which  rules are in place but are not clearly defined  Setting up places for storage of surplus materials; improvements in  conditions such as materials protruding from their designated  spaces and those stored directly on the floor  Raising awareness through KY (risk-detection) using one-point  sheets  Implementing KY using one-point sheets in morning KY  Holding weekly practical training sessions on pointing and calling  activities, on a per-team basis s Human Resources Hiroyuki Sekine Production Department Tokyo Sekisui Heim  Industry Co., Ltd. Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Business and CSR Three Prominences Bases of CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 42  Lifeline Innovation Measures  against  ageing of  infrastructure  Securing  safety and  longer product  lifespan  Securing  water  resources  Building  disaster- resistant  infrastructure To social infrastructure Sales company (Agent) Other raw materials Sekisui Chemical Group Main materials PVC, PP, PE Thorough quality  management p. 48 Proposing safe,  low-cost maintenance  methods Occupational safety  during production  and construction Production Construction Diagnostics/ design support Maintenance T m Important theme O d a Important theme P lo m Important theme p. 46 Pursuing energy conservation  P c Important theme Meeting Infrastructure Needs that Vary by Region,  on a Global Scale The demands placed on infrastructure are of infinite variety, as for example developing countries require securing stable water resources, developed countries need to address ageing of infrastructure, and earthquake-prone regions require development of  ininfrfras astrtruc uctu ture re r res esisista tant nt t to didisa sastster er. Th The Ur Urba ban InInfrfras astrtruc uctu ture re &  & E Env nviriron onme ment ntalal P Pro rodu ductcts  Company uses the wealth of technologies and expertise it has accumulated centered on pipe systems to meet, on a global basis, infrastructure needs that are growing in both diversity and complexity. It contributes to development of safe, secure social environ- ments through supplying a broad range of products, including plastic Eslon pipes characterized by light weight, high durability, and ease of construction, pipe rehabilita- tion systems with low levels of impact on the environment and society, and residential building materials that help create comfortable spaces for living. Urban  Infrastructure  & Environmental  Products Company  Lifeline Innovation for Our Future Contributing to building safe,  comfortable infrastructure and water  environments as an environment  solutions company Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 43  Water treatment Production equipment Buildings Buildings Production equipment Industrial Piping Materials PVC Plant Pipes Valve Series Protection Coat Static Dissipative Plate DC Plate Heat Exchange Coating Heat Radiation Ceiling Panels Radiation Air- Conditioning System Sekisui Ice Storage Tanks Ice Thermal Storage System FRP Panel Tanks Stainless Steel Panel Tanks ThermaStore Tanks Cistern Research/Diagnostics We carry out research and diagnostics  on plant piping and underground  pipes, and when renovation is  needed we propose solutions in  accordance with the degree of wear  and building properties. Design We propose the optimal designs for  new construction, expansion, and  renovation of factory facilities such as  plant equipment, utility equipment,  sewage and sludge treatment  facilities, and water supply and  drainage facilities. Construction Based on our thorough environmen- tal and safety measures, our highly  experienced experts manage quality  and processes. They also provide  support for on-site adjustments and  test runs after completion of  construction. Maintenance We also develop flawless maintenance  systems after beginning full operation.  In addition to periodic inspections  required under laws and regulations,  we conduct thorough maintenance  and inspections employing a diverse  range of technologies. In these ways,  we continue to provide responsible,  long-term support for safe operation. Solar System for Agricultural Use Phenovaboard Thermal Insulation Materials SUPER ESLOMETAX FC Air Conditioning Plumbing AC DRAIN PIPE/FITTING Air Conditioning Drainage Pipes ESLOHYPER AW Water Supply Pipes Fire-shield VP Pipe Systems Drainage Piping Electricity & Telecommunication Cable Protection Pipes Electricity & Telecommunications Pipes ESLOHYPER AW Water Supply Service Pipes SPR Method RAINSTATION Storm Water Storage/Filtration System SIVAC System Vacuum Sewer System Gas Exhaust & Deodorizing Dust Duct Pipes GRP Drainage Piping (Underground) Super Stretched Sheet Reinforces Gutter (Chosin) Rain Gutter for Large Scale Buildings Buildings Civil engineering Pipe Rehabilitation Plastic-Ribbed Pipe Drainage Piping (Underground) FFU Lid Effluent Treatment Facilities Screw Press Type Dehydrator Sludge Dehydrator Plant Engineering & Construction Rotating Biological Contactor AQUACUBE SKBiO Effluent Treatment System Water treatment In addition to the collective strength to handle a diverse range of parts and materials, deploying business in  connection with the water environment and infrastructure requires the expertise to control quality and costs in  total, including not just the quality and costs of parts and materials themselves but also those of diagnostics  services and construction. The Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company meets societys needs from a variety of aspects  from increasing the reliability of infrastructure through cutting costs using overall optimization, consideration for  the environment in areas such as reducing wastes, and consideration for the surrounding environment in terms of  factors such as traffic congestion, noise, and vibration. It does so by using the strengths of its value chain from  research and diagnostics through construction methods, system design, production of parts and materials,  construction, and facility maintenance. Together with global economic development, shortages have arisen in water needed for living and  for agricultural use around the world. To resolve such maldistribution of water, need is growing for  water environment-related infrastructure around the world, including long-distance transportation  of water from water sources to areas where it is needed and desalination of seawater. The Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company works proactively to meet  infrastructure needs around the world, not just developing infrastructure in Japan. It contributes to  improving the worlds water environment by putting to use the technologies and expertise it has  built up in Japan in areas such as supply of high-quality plastic pipes with outstanding durability  and corrosion resistance. Deploying Value-Chain Businesses  that Meet the Needs of Society Contributing to Improvements in the Water Environment on a Global Scale Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Business and CSR Three Prominences Bases of CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 44  Eslon Pipes, plastic pipes boasting superior performance in areas such as quality, cost,  suitability to mass production, and safety, maintain top-class performance in the Japanese  market in terms of deliveries for water and sewer systems, remaining active on the front  lines more than half a century after production began. Eslon Pipes are used in a wide range of applications, including those of water and sewer systems, agricultural water  pipes, and industrial water pipes. They have evolved to be able to withstand use in a variety of environments, including  long-term use both indoors and outdoors as well as construction amid sweltering heat or in the middle of winter. For example, through improving their resistance to impact and heat and expanding their lineup to include products  such as large-diameter, high-strength reinforced plastic pipes combined with metals, fiberglass, and other materials, the  company has responded to a wide range of piping material needs, thus contributing to development of social infrastructure. of Social Infrastructure through  Evolution of Eslon Pipes In developed countries including Japan, many sewer pipes are seeing the ends of  their durable lives, and the increase in pipe rehabilitation construction to replace  them has become an issue of concern in society. Traditional pipe rehabilitation construction requires excavating on roads and the ground surface to dig up the buried  sewer pipes, leading to problems such as traffic congestion and generation of large volumes of wastes. The SPR  non-excavating method, developed by the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company, contributes to the  rehabilitation construction of sewer pipes. From its introduction in 1986 through the end of fiscal 2011, it has contributed in a  reduction of a cumulative total of 3.8 million tons in wastes in comparison with excavation methods. In recent years, in order to deploy this method in countries around the world, it has promoted management of different  pipe diameters and cross-sectional forms as well as expansion of construction zones. Furthermore, we also are advancing pipe  rehabilitation method from a variety of perspectives, including development of new methods and developing applications in  the water supply and agricultural-water fields. In the future, through means such as public and private sector cooperation in infrastructure development, we will  contribute to delivering infrastructure that is best suited to the needs of each region and each project and is strong  against earthquakes, floods, droughts, and other disasters and to safe, reliable water supply, through efforts including  supply of highly earthquake-resistant flexible polyethylene water and sewer pipes and supplying technologies and  systems related to water supply, such as those for water storage and purification. Aiming to Building a Society with a Safe and Reliable Water Supply 1950s 1960s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Water pipe  performance  improvements Hot water pipe  performance  improvements Sewer and agricultural  water pipe performance  improvements Development of  SPR (pipeline  renewal) method Development of  Hyper PE and  development of  sleeve pipe header  system Development of  Omega Liner method Development of  rainwater retention  system Development of  automated  SPR method Expanding pipeline renewal system globally Urban  Infrastructure  & Environmental  Products  Company   Water and sewer pipes made of rigid polyvinyl chloride  Non-excavation sewer pipe rehabilitation method By meeting needs in social infrastructure development with  a wide range of lineup, we boast a top-class share in Japan Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 45  Example of Use During Summer in Hokkaido Conceptual Diagram of an Air-Conditioning System  Using Wastewater Heat Length: 30-150 meters Fan Plastic heat-exchanging pipes Underground  temperature: 18C Outtake temperature: 21C Exterior air temperature: 32C Heat exchange in  underground pipes Rehabilitated pipe and wastewater heat recovery system Water-sourced heat Pump unit Installation of a wastewater heat recovery system at the same time as pipeline renewal construction Indoor unit Indoor unit Indoor unit Indoor unit Comparison of CO2 emissions1 38% down Use of wastewater heat Traditional method (individual air-conditioning) (Tons) 80 60 40 20 0 We developed this system as part of our  efforts to exploit markets for renewable  energy. This product developed from our  experience doing construction work and  other activities in greenhouses during  midsummer and during seasons where PVC  pipes would freeze. Many customers have  also commented that they have been able to  lower the costs of the heating they use to  prevent freezing in winter. In the future, we  plan to advance development in accordance  with regional characteristics and needs, for  example through using exhaust to melt snow or using  this technology together with natural energy. Wastewater thermal energy system The wastewater flowing through sewer pipes maintains temperatures more  stable than those of exterior air, at roughly 15–20C year-round. It is understood  that use of this as a source of heat for melting snow, air-conditioning, water  heating, and other applications can conserve energy and effect higher levels of  energy efficiency than traditional methods. For example, when used in air-conditioning, it can realize reductions of  approximately 30% or more in CO2 emissions compared to traditional methods  that use exterior air as a heat source (according to Sekisui Chemical estimates). By  installing heat exchangers (heat recovery pipes) at the same time as pipe  rehabilitation by utilizing the SPR technology used to renovate and rehabilitate  aged sewer pipes, it is possible to efficiently recover and use the heat of  untreated wastewater flowing through the pipes. This will be the system used for  the first time in Japan. The numerous sewer pipes installed during Japans postwar period of rapid  economic growth are meeting the age at which they require rehabilitation.  Combination with the pipe rehabilitation method, which sees expanded use as a  measure for addressing this state of affairs, will contribute to conserving energy,  reducing CO2 emissions, and cutting costs at the same time it reduces wastes  and resolves the blocking of roads. Ground thermal energy system This system helps reduce heating load through intake of  exterior air through building ventilation, by passing air  through plastic heat-exchanging pipes buried 1–3 meters  deep of shallow underground where temperatures are  stable year-round. For example, during summer in  Hokkaido, it can be covered mostly with cold energy from  underground instead of air-conditioning, consuming only  enough energy to run the fans. VOICE Sekisui Chemical Groups production sites are advancing ECO-JIT activities2 seeking to balance economy and  ecology through conserving energy. As the first model plant in these activities, Sekisui Chemicals Tokyo Plant  is striving to reduce energy use on the model production line by 50% by fiscal 2013. Environ- ment Masakazu Abiko (left) Shohei Sugano (right) Sales Department Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido  Co., Ltd. 1 Assumptions  Number of housing complex: 48 (total floor area: 1,400 m2)  Heater use in the city of Sendai  0.429 kg-CO2/kWh 2 ECO-JIT activities An initiative intended to cut energy costs through identifying energy loss within production processes and carrying out production  improvements (reforms). Environ- ment Examples of Activities Reducing Environmental Load through  Putting Unutilized Energy to Use Reducing Energy Consumption Through  Efficiency of Production Equipment Urban  Infrastructure  & Environmental  Products  Company  Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Business and CSR Three Prominences Bases of CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 46  Phenovaboard high-performance  insulating material Full automated SPR method The SPR non-excavating pipeline renewal method is regarded  highly for the way it does not require any excavation of roads or  ground surfaces. For example, it won the Ministry of Economy, Trade  and Industry Award in the first Monozukuri Nippon Grand Award.  The Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company  has realized automation of this method in order to increase its  Attractive Qualities even more. In March 2012, this automated  method was chosen for the first time by the Hokuriku Regional  Agricultural Administration Office of the Ministry of Agriculture,  Forestry and Fisheries in an experimental construction to counter  siphon water leaks. Construction was conducted on agricultural  canals in Yomegane in the city of Nanto, Toyama Prefecture. The automated SPR method combines into a single system a newly developed highly stable pipe winding  machine, profile transportation equipment, and pumps for transporting backfill materials. Since it makes it  possible to automate completely work inside the pipes through remote control and operation using operation  monitors aboveground, it greatly improves safety during construction. In the field of pipeline renewal, where further market growth is expected as existing infrastructure ages, we  will continue providing reliable quality and safe, secure construction environments through delivering these  new technologies. Sekisui Chemical Group periodically holds Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities  Presentation, in which participants from throughout the Group meet to present on outstand- ing achievements, with the goal of promoting improvements in CS & quality. In the 46th Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Presentation (see p. 20), held in  January 2012, Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. won the gold prize. Aimed at improving the  manufacturing process for Phenovaboard high-performance insulating material, its activities  clearly identified the main cause of the defect as peeling defect and achieved in eliminating  this cause completely. Some of the reasons it won the award included its approach of looking  honestly at the actual products and actual phenomena and its devotion to eliminating defects. Since Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. had won the silver prize in  the KAIZEN Activities Presentation for two years in a row – in  fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010 – we felt considerable pressure going  in to this years presentations. It made us very happy to be able  to have our own achievements recognized and win this gold  prize. I was so moved and nervous at the awards ceremony that  I do not even remember what I said. Since these efforts involved  process improvement in production equipment, they were very  difficult because we could not see the subject with our own eyes. As  all technical staff, including manufacturing team members, worked  together as one discussing a variety of ideas with each other, we were able  to put a stop to the root cause and eliminate defects completely. Winning  this prize has encouraged us to carry out further KAIZEN (improvement)  activities in the future. VOICE Mitsuhiro Kasue Functional Building- Materials Manufacture  Department Okayama Sekisui  Industry Co., Ltd. Reducing Running Defects at Production Site Full Automated Pipeline Renewal System Examples of Activities Urban  Infrastructure  & Environmental  Products  Company  e CS & Quality m CS & Quality Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 47  Construction section training A safety drill on pointing and calling In safety activities, the thinking, roles, and actions of top site management and  of safety managers with regard to safety are important factors affecting the  degree to which safety awareness spreads to each individual employee. The  Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company established Safety  Training in fiscal 2006 as opportunities for site top management to check and  experience safety with their own eyes and ears. Since then, it has intensified its  safety efforts. As its businesses expand overseas, in fiscal 2011 it held a Safety  Training for presidents and safety managers of overseas affiliates, with activities  including getting a feel for risks at Sekisui Chemicals Tokyo Plant and  Shiga-Ritto Plant. In this way, it is deploying its safety activities at local affiliates  as well. The value-chain business, which provides total support from research and diagnos- tics through design of construction methods and systems, production of parts and  materials, construction, and facility maintenance, requires broad-ranging knowledge  surpassing the boundaries of job positions and business domains. For example, sales personnel need to have deep knowledge of products and  related laws, regulations, and other matters in each of several fields including  single-family residences, housing complexes, and the public sector. Since technical personnel serve as  managers and supervisors on infrastructure construction and research, in addition to knowledge and  experience, they also need official qualifications such as those of plumbing supervisors, civil engineer- ing supervisors, and architecture and architectural supervisors. To advance the value-chain business, which in this way requires diverse knowledge and qualifica- tions, the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company helps its employees improve their  skills through sales-engineer training and support for earning official national qualifications. In  addition, the company has begun a system of certifying employees who satisfy its requirements in the  areas of safety, quality, and compliance. This system started in construction sections, and future plans  call for expanding it to production and sales sections. Through efforts such as these, it will train, with  even higher levels, sales and construction management engineers. VOICE HR Training for the Value Chain Business Conducting Safety Training The safety training at Sekisui Chemicals Tokyo Plant was very meaningful. We  learned that while of course equipment safety inspections and activities to  eliminate risks are important, it is even more effective for managers themselves  to take the lead in demonstrating a Safety First approach to employees. Sensing  a need to change our activities right away in order to reduce the sources of risk, I  have decided to start all meetings with the subject of safety. In order to make a plant  safe, it is essential that all personnel, from the top down, continue to think about Safety  First at all times. s Human Resources g Human Resources Jack Murdoch President  Allen Extruders, LLC Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Business and CSR Three Prominences Bases of CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 48  Parts and materials producers Processors Producers of end products End product Other Raw Materials Sekisui Chemical Group Reducing CO2  emissions during  production p. 52 Thorough quality  management,  passing along skills Proper management of  chemical substances p. 54 p. 54 Stable supply of  products Supplying products that  contribute to lessening  environmental loads p. 52 Production plant R e p Important theme S p Important theme S c e Important theme P ch Important theme T m p Important theme Main Materials PVC, PP, PE High Performance Plastics Company Chemistry for your win Contributing to Realizing a Rich Society With Advanced Technologies, Centered on the IT, Automotive, Medical, and Building Materials Fields IT Field  Functional  improvements  Realizing compact,  lightweight  products MD Field  Simplicity,  speediness  Safety,     comfortability  Environmental  performance AT Field Chemistry for your win Che hemistry  Cont ntribuutiting ng to Rea With Advanceed Ce Centerredd o on the ITT, A and Building M M forr y you our win alizizinng a Ri Rich Society d Te Technoologies, Au Automo motive, Me Me Medical, Mater erials Field ld lds High Performance Plastics Company Chemistry for your win Contributing to Realizing a Rich Society With Advanced Technologies, Centered on the IT, Automotive, Medical, and Building Materials Fields Pursuing the Limitless Possibilities of Plastics Unlike other materials like metals, wood, and ceramics, plastics are capable of meeting a  wide range of needs through transforming the material properties and processing it into various forms, such as sheets, foam, and fine particles. The High Performance Plastics  Company y utililizes i its own u iniqu q e pr p ecision moldlding g and fifine pa p rticle techn lologgies to  supply high-performance materials and intermediate materials globally, targeting a wide range of business areas including the automotive (AT), electronics materials (IT), and  medical (MD) fields. It will continue contributing to the realization of a more convenient,  rich society through further expanding the business fields in which it operates together  with advancing technological innovations and new-product development that meet  with the needs of society. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 49  Cover panel Low-odor, ultra-low VOC tapes Protective tapes for interior parts Door trim Instrument panel hoods Double-faced tape ITO film LCD module Touch Panel Structure Parts and materials used in the automotive field Door interior materials Glove boxes Package trays Rear doors Interior ceiling materials Roof consoles Quarter trim Console  boxes Perimeter sealant Seal spacer Glass substrate Electrode  Color filter Liquid crystal Photosensitive resin for LCD end seal Cell-gap spacer Rear trim Weather-stripping  compounds Rocker panels Door-lock sealing  materials Installation tapes Installation tapes for  exterior parts Noise- and waterproofing  materials Over fenders Bumpers Radiator  grilles Windshields Interlayer film for  laminated glass In recent years automotive markets have seen increasing  needs for comfort, environmental performance, and other  needs in addition to the most important issue of safety. The  High Performance Plastics Company responds to such needs  using its film, foam, tape, molding, and other technologies. For example, its interlayer films used in windshield  provide a variety of functions such as keeping down use of  air-conditioning through solar control and making the vehicle  interior more comfortable through sound insulation, in  addition to increasing safety in the event of impact. Whats  more, interlayer films for use in head-up displays, which  display vehicle speed and other information on the  windshield, greatly increase safety by preventing drivers line  of sight from moving. Installation of solar control and sound  insulation interlayer films on 10 million vehicles would enable  annual reductions of about 1.2 million tons in CO2 emissions  (according to Sekisui Chemical estimates). In addition, an  original survey of business partner customer satisfaction (CS)  in the interlayer film business shows that our products are  highly regarded, for example earning the overall top position for nine years in a row. We globally supply a variety of other parts and materials as well. These include vehicle interior materials that combine design  elements, such as the feel of materials, with strength and heat resistance along with energy-conservation effects from their light  weight and safety and comfort thanks to their cushioning effects. They also include exterior materials that contribute to energy  conservation through lighter weights by realizing thinner materials while maintaining the quality feel of standard materials. In the electronics materials (IT) field, which is seeing performance  improvements together with decreases in product sizes and weights,  functionality of materials are even more important. To respond to  such needs, the High Performance Plastics Company supplies a wide  variety of high-performance materials, employing technologies such  as those for precision molding, fine particles, and tapes. We have secured a high market share in the field of LCD display  panels through supplying products including spacers that keep  uniform the space between the two glass panels that make up a  display panel, sealing materials that prevent leaks of liquid crystal  material and keep it pure, and conductive fine particles that transmit  signals between narrow electrodes. We also contribute to high performance and miniaturization  through supplying other parts and materials essential to IT devices,  including thin films which make up the touch panel, and tapes used  to attach LCD panels to the main units of IT devices while also  providing light-shielding and reflective performance. Furthermore,  we also supply photosensitive materials, tapes, films, and other  materials essential to the semiconductor manufacturing process. Contributing to comfort  and the environment  as well as safety Supplying a Broad Range of High-Performance Parts and Materials Electronics Materials (IT) Field Automotive (AT) Field LCD Panel Structure Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Business and CSR Three Prominences Bases of CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 50  Cholesterol diagnostic reagents Blood test reagents Vacuum blood collection tubes Packaging tape In recent years, together with improvements in the quality of life conditions, lifestyle-related  illnesses and metabolic syndrome, etc. have become new issues of concern in society in  developed countries. Early detection and treatment is important for lifestyle-related illnesses, and  as interest in preventive medicine has increased, the roles of diagnostic reagents and testing  methods have grown. Against this background, the High Performance  Plastics Company is developing businesses focused on preventive  medicine, with the goal of contributing to the realization of healthy,  enriched lives for human beings. For example, in the area of diagnostic reagents used in cholesterol  testing, it has realized the speediness and simplicity of testing which  previously had required complex preprocessing, making it possible to  conduct measurement directly in the medical facility. In the area of  diabetes testing as well, we are making considerable contributions to  prevention and treatment of lifestyle-related illnesses through means  including supplying simplified reagents and equipment, which enable  simple, quick measurement. In addition, we also contribute to building healthy societies around  the world through efforts that include supplying influenza diagnostic  reagents and sets of serum separating media and blood clotting  accelerants of strong plastic vacuum blood collection tubes. Medical (MD) Field Resin processing technologies that improve the functions  of plastics is the technology that marks the origin of Sekisui  Chemical Group. Advancing these technologies in  accordance with the changing times, the High Performance  Plastics Company meets the diverse needs of customers by  supplying products suited to a broad range of uses,  including adhesives, packaging tape, packaging films,  agricultural films, and plastic containers. Supplying Advanced Resin Processing Technologies for a Wide Range of Uses High Performance Materials Field Producing Products that Have the Worlds Top  Market Shares in Various Fields The High Performance Plastics Company has the top market share in the world  in a large number of high value-added products, such as high-performance  interlayer films and cross linked polyolefin foam for interior use in the AT field  and LCD spacers and conductive fine particles in the IT field. Based on this  performance, the company will continue responding to needs in state-of-the-art  fields, which continue to advance and diversify.  Interlayer film for automotive laminated glass  Spacers for LCD use  Conductive fine particles for LCD use  Polyvinyl butyral resin  Cross linked polyolefin foam  Cholesterol diagnostic reagents Major leading products in which the High  Performance Plastics Company has the  worlds top market share: Contributing to  the Health of People the World Over from a Preventive Medicine Perspective High Performance Plastics Company 51 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Thickness of paper core Standard core Eco Paper Core  is easy to crush Standard core Eco Paper Core Eco Paper Core Before expansion After expansion CO2 emissions from energy consumption sources  at the Musashi Plant 29 28 29 31 (Thousand tons-CO2) 40 30 20 10 0 2011 2008 2009 2010 2007 (FY) 25 The High Performance Plastics Company, which accounts for about  one-half of Sekisui Chemical Groups volume of greenhouse-gas  emissions, is making progress on reducing energy use by using visualiza- tion systems that make energy use visible at each production facility. Sekisui Chemicals Musashi Plant has advanced improvements to its  operation methods and equipment aimed at conserving energy by  identifying waste and irregularity in energy use since introducing a  visualization system in 2010. In addition, under the restrictions on  electricity use implemented during the summer of 2011 it was able to  meet reduction targets set even higher than regulatory values by  allocating use of electricity to each production department in advance  and monitoring actual usage. Thanks to these achievements, the plant was able to reduce CO2  emissions from energy-consumption sources in fiscal 2011 by approxi- mately 20% vs. fiscal 2007. Advancell EM thermal expandable microsphere Advancell EM is a thermal expandable microsphere whose volume  expands by foaming 50-100 times when heated. Including this material  when molding automotive components greatly reduces weight and  contributes to improving fuel consumption and reducing CO2 emissions.  In addition, since closed-cell foam has a uniform cell structure, it makes it  possible to produce lightweight parts and materials that look good on  the outside. Kraft tape adopting Eco Paper Core The Eco Paper Core helps conserve paper resources and reduce custom- ers waste generation by decreasing the thickness of the paper core of a  roll of kraft tape by one-half. This also reduces the volume of waste, since  it can be crushed easily by hand for disposal. It contributes to reducing  space requirements for storage of wastes and cutting CO2 emissions from  transporting them as well. VOICE Developing products that contribute to reducing  CO2 emissions and wastes With this product, we tried to reduce the amount  of paper core disposed of as waste as an attempt  to help customers contribute to the environment  through their use of kraft tape. As their name  implies, paper cores are made of paper. For this  reason, this project involved the difficult challenge of  how paper changes like a living creature as it warps or  breaks down depending on the surrounding  environment, particularly moisture and humidity.  However, we were able to resolve this difficulty by  sharing practical ideas with each other and  improving production lines. Examples of Activities g Environ- ment Chikara Matsuki Packaging Tape Production  Department, Musashi Plant, High Performance Plastics  Company, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Energy Conservation Activities through Visualizing Energyy Environ- ment High Performance Plastics Company Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Business and CSR Three Prominences Bases of CSR 52 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Sekisui Chemicals Shiga-Minakuchi Plant incorporated  consideration for the environment from a variety of  perspectives in the renovation of the equipment in its main  building, which includes offices, meeting rooms, a  showroom, and other facilities, in October 2011. First of all, as efforts toward proactive use of natural  energy, the plant installed solar power generation equip- ment and implemented efforts such as use of geothermal  heat for preheating in air-conditioning equipment and use  of rainwater with water storage tanks it built itself. In addition, to encourage energy conservation, it  implemented a variety of efforts including use of laminated  glass with sound insulation/solar control interlayer films to  control solar radiation, green rooftop landscaping, natural  ventilation through eco shafts, installing energy-saving,  long-life lights, controlling lighting using motion and light  sensors, and energy monitoring. Through these efforts, the plant has realized a building  incorporating consideration for the environment with high  levels of efficiency. Environment-friendly Equipment Renovations  Sekisui Chemical Group sites in Japan and around the world are deploying Group  KAIZEN Activities (see p. 20), which advance improvements in production and  operation efficiency as well as product and quality improvements, centered on  production sites. Once each year regional presentation meetings are held in  which workplaces share their results with each other, to improve these activities  further. As part of these activities, Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. deploys activities at six sites  in Japan and around the world and holds its own KAIZEN presentation meetings. In November 2011, 61 staff members in 10 teams, chosen from the four sites  in Japan, took part in a presentation meeting. This presentation meeting, the first  held since the period for KAIZEN activities had shifted to six months, featured  presentations on themes  reflecting the unique charac- teristics of individual sites, such  as amino-acid efficiency  improvements and diagnostic  reagents. In the future we will share  and improve our efforts  through continuing activities  such as these. A KAIZEN presentation meeting at Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Environ- ment Group KAIZEN Activities Examples of Activities The exterior of the new main building at the Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Energy-conservation and new-energy  technologies used in the building CS & Quality KAIZEN activities at Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. now demand greater  speed as their focus has shifted from one theme per year to one  theme per term. As part of these efforts, we carry out activities on themes leading  to improvements in profitability. Our team has presented in Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN  presentation meetings twice. While we were unable to secure one  of the top prizes, this was a very good experience because we  learned from the presentations and activities of other teams. In the  future we will raise the level of our activities through improving our  speed and KAIZEN ability even more. VOICE Masashi Fujiwara Production Section I, Iwate Plant Pharmaceuticals and Fine  Chemicals Division Pharma & Research Business Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. High Performance Plastics Company 53 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Risk Assessment Flowchart Promoting corrective measures Tolerable Identifying leak risks Leak risk assess- ment table Risk level decision Leak risk registry Leak risk list The High Performance Plastics Companys  production facilities handle a diverse range of  chemical substances. If these were to leak  from their storage facilities or production  equipment, they could have significant  impacts on safety and the environment. Each  facility takes the necessary steps to prevent  such situations, and to minimize the impact in  the event of a leak. Designating December 2010 as leak  risk-management enhancement month, Sekisui Chemicals Shiga-Minakuchi Plant  employed activities to identify related risks. It assessed risks in five levels, by the severity  of response in the event of a chemical leak, the likelihood of a leak occurring, and the  combination of severity and likelihood. Already it has identified more than 300 risks,  and through fiscal 2011 it had implemented corrective measures for more than 50  factors behind risks of level 2 or higher. Through these and other measures, it is striving  to reduce the risk of leakage of chemical substances. To respond to the globalization of its business activities, the High Performance Plastics  Company is striving to develop global human resources through activities, including the  Global Employee System (see p. 28), intended to train Global Talents employees actively,  and the Global Trainee Program (see p. 28), which enables participants to build up real-world  experience overseas, and other various international training activities. At the same time, important issues faced by production sites are those of achieving  technological innovation toward producing products with higher levels of value added and  of passing along site skills. For this  reason, in fiscal 2011 we revised the  training system at production plants in  Japan, evolving the system from the  previous one of training focused on  learning operating methods through  on-the-job training (OJT1) to training on  subjects such as working in collaboration  with colleagues and developing  problem-solving abilities throughout the  organization as a whole. Through these  training, improvements in the productiv- ity at manufacturing sites are promoted  by familiarizing young manager-class  personnel with Sekisui-style manufactur- ing development. 1 OJT  An abbreviation of On the Job Training This training program, instead of just using  one-directional lectures, incorporated many  practical examples and experiences of the  instructors and was easy to understand. It was a  good opportunity to look at my own work. Through residential training and exchanging  opinions with participants from other sites, instead of  just learning to understand Sekisuis way of doing  things from lectures and textbooks alone, I was able  to familiarize myself with the content of the training  and to deepen my understanding of it. In addition to  having an understanding of the concepts, I want to  practice them in my own workplace and use them in  training younger employees. VOICE Production section training HR Training Safety of Chemical Substances VOICE Installation of gutters to prevent leakage  of chemical substances g Human Resources s Human Resources Masajiro Nakai Industrial Tape  Production Group  Taga Office  Sekisui Taga Chemical  Industry Co., Ltd. Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Business and CSR Three Prominences Bases of CSR 54 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  (Employees) 40,000 30,000 20,000 10,000 0 (%)100 75 50 25 0 (FY) 18,556 2010 15,949 80.4 78.8 78.4 80.7 78.7 16,918 16,870 2011 Session 2 Session 2 Session 3 Session 4 Session 1 18,157 Number and Percentage of Employees Undergoing e-Learning Verified When the Labor Contract Law was enacted in China in 2008,  a network was formed among human-resources and legal  personnel in Sekisui Chemicals China Office and nine  Chinese subsidiaries. Through this network, we provide support for  business activities and problem-solving in the China market  by handling 100 or more requests for practical consultation  per year from each company while also sharing information on  the constantly changing laws and regulations in China. Development of this system has made it possible to ascertain  local conditions and needs more accurately. In the future as well,  we will make progress on strengthening compliance while sharing  the Sekisui Chemical Groups thinking on compliance management. Aiming to be a company trusted by society globally Policy While compliance generally tends to be interpreted to refer to following laws and regulations, Sekisui  Chemical Group requires that all Group employees address compliance earnestly as a personal issue  and take action, based on our understanding that the concept of compliance refers to acting in  sincerity in accordance with the ethical viewpoints demanded of members of a company and  professionals, as active members of society. Activities As part of our efforts in fiscal 2011, we continued compliance education for  employees. In addition to periodic compliance training for new employees, new  managers, and other personnel, we also focused on educational activities  targeting Group member companies. At the same time, we enhanced training  on individual areas including the Antimonopoly Law, the Act against Delay in  Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. to Subcontractors, the Product Liability  Law, and harassment. Moreover the e-learning program conducted each year continued, looking  at selected topics centered on information management and insider-trading  regulations. Furthermore, we prepared new paper-based training materials to  encourage employees in manufacturing sections, where personal computers  are not used frequently, to undergo training. Revision of Compliance Cards In fiscal 2011, we revised our Compliance Cards and redistributed  them to all employees. Through this effort we aim to increase  awareness of compliance by providing opportunities for  employees to think about their own behavior. Compliance Systems at Group Companies Overseas Together with its global business  expansion, Sekisui Chemical Group has  enhanced its compliance system through  a network of specialists in Japan and  around the world, for example by  assigning an in-house attorney in China in  fiscal 2007 and one in North America in  fiscal 2011. In the future, we will strengthen  compliance in regions including Europe  and Asia as well, grounded in the  properties of each region such as its laws,  regulations, and cultural climate, in order  to implement Sekisui Chemical Groups  concept of compliance on a global scale. VOICE Lirong Wang China Office Business Planning  Department Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Compliance Compliance Card Bases of CSR 55 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  FY 2011 Whistle-blowing Reports and Consultations Power harassments  9 Working conditions  1 Other  2 Total  12 Verified Items Number of items The S.C.A.N. Whistle-blowing Program In 2002, Sekisui Chemical Group developed S.C.A.N. (Sekisui Compliance  Assist Network), an intra-company whistle-blowing system, available for  use by all Sekisui Chemical Group employees (including employees of  subsidiaries of subsidiaries and temporary staffs from placement agencies). In fiscal 2011, we enhanced this system further, based on the themes  of understandability and peace of mind, both making it possible for  employees to submit reports anonymously and revising the  whistle-blowing site on the intranet. The new design is easier to  understand, featuring information on what takes place after submitting a  report as well as questions and answers. In the future as well, we will respond in good faith to each individual  report, recognizing it to be an important topic for the company to address. Since Fiscal 2011, as In-House Legal Counsel I have  provided support to ensure that we can respond to the  legal issues faced by the 13 Group companies in North  America in appropriate, timely, and effective ways. We  also employ outside attorneys to help reduce legal risks. I  supervise and manage these outside law firms to help reduce  legal expenses. Since we have a variety of businesses in North America that  occasionally require specialized attorneys, such as production  of synthetic resins and the medical and civil-engineering  businesses, I feel that this job is a challenging one. In the future, together with continuing activities already  underway, we will work to build an internal compliance reporting  system as well. VOICE Compliance Systems in North America At Sekisui America Corporation, the area  headquarters company for North America,  an in-house attorney was hired in fiscal  2011 to further strengthen the compliance  system at each Group company. This  makes the compliance system one that  can receive prior consultations from each  company and work out thoughtful, timely  measures in accordance with the actual  conditions of each company. Currently, we are striving to prevent  the occurrence of the risks companies face  through efforts including various types of  legal consultation, while also handling  more than 40 contracts per month. In February 2009 the Fair Trade Commission found Sekisui Chemical to have colluded with other firms in  determination of sale prices of polyvinyl chloride pipes and fittings over the period 2004–2006 and  ordered it to take measures to eliminate such collusion and to pay surcharges (hereinafter referred to as  the order). Since Sekisui Chemicals determination of facts of this case differs from that on which the  order was based, in April 2009 the company asked the Fair Trade Commission to cancel the order. Appeal  procedures are still underway. In the future as well, Sekisui Chemical will continue its efforts to raise awareness of compliance,  always keeping in mind the fact that compliance is an important foundation of CSR management. Since fiscal 2008 no new cases of violations of laws or regulations or similar incidents having  significant impact on society have been discovered. Legal Violations, etc. Grant Elliot Smith HR, Legal & Admin  Department Sekisui America Corporation Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Three Prominences Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Bases of CSR Business and CSR 56 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Aiming to manage risk and crisis and  to increase sensitivity to risks Upon carrying out improvements to the crisis manage- ment manual in the China territory, SEKISUI (SHANGHAI)  INTERNATIONAL TRADING was placed in charge of  preparing a template for individual offices  manuals. First of all, we prepared a  general framework through  confirming building- management rules and relevant  laws and regulations. Next, we  identified possible crises and  drafted countermeasures for  them. Finally, we also incorpo- rated the views of employees. Through this experience, we were  able to develop a new appreciation for the  responsibility to protect the company and  its employees. In the future as well, we will  work to enhance crisis management  systems keeping in mind the saying from the  Han Feizi, A little leak will sink a great ship. VOICE Policy Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing development of a risk management system to  unify risk management, which strives to prevent risks from occurring, and crisis  management, which involves responding to major risks that have occurred. Risk Management Program In contemporary corporate activities, which are growing in complexity, it is impossible to ascertain  accurately all risks that could be realized in the future. For this reason, Sekisui Chemical Group  continues to run through the plan-do-check-action (PDCA) cycle of risk management, considering  increasing all employees sensitivity to risks to be essential to addressing such risks. Although in fiscal 2010 only divisions under Company organizations ran through this cycle, in  fiscal 2011 operating companies were added to bring the total number to 42 organizations. Among  these, formulations of risk response plans were conducted overseas at model companies in Europe,  the U.S., South Korea, and China. In the future we will establish PDCA cycles for these model  companies and link them to deployment of similar activities in each region. Restructuring the Crisis  Management System In fiscal 2011, Sekisui Chemical Group conducted a  comprehensive inspection of its crisis management  system and worked to reconstruct the system, in order to  utilize its experience with the Great East Japan Earthquake  to prepare for future crises. When encountering a crisis, the first responses of  individuals and organizations determine the success or  failure of subsequent responses. For this reason, the Group  thoroughly revised crisis management documents and  systematically improved tools such as procedure manuals,  to enable the necessary people to take the necessary  actions at the necessary times. We also surveyed the  current state of the disaster-prevention systems at  approximately 800 sites in Japan and decided on courses  of action for future responses. In fiscal 2012, based on these experiences we will run  through the crisis management PDCA cycle and imple- ment continual improvements at all sites. In addition, we  will expand these domestic efforts to overseas sites as  well, preparing for restructuring of systems in fiscal 2013  and later. Yuan Gao Shanghai Branch Sekisui (Shanghai)  International  Trading Co., Ltd. Bases of CSR Risk Management 57 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Advancing CSR Management through  Dialogue with Stakeholders This dialogue was a valuable opportunity to  hear the President directly explain the  midterm management plan, the  concept of collective strength, and  the necessity of deploying a value  chain across all businesses. The  Presidents easy-to-understand  explanations, using practical  examples, were very  persuasive. In addition, the Presidents  enthusiasm to change the  Company was obvious and was  quite moving as he thoroughly  answered individual  questions from participants. In the future I would like  to take the initiative in helping  to power Company reforms, by  acquiring such collective  strength myself. VOICE Policy Sekisui Chemical Group recognizes the importance of adequate and proactive disclosure, and  two-way communication based on such disclosure, for developing relationships built on trust with  our stakeholders. To this end, in 2005 we established our Disclosure Principles. Sekisui Chemical Group is working to advance communication with all stakeholders and to  reflect as appropriate in our business the evaluations and comments we receive. We are doing so  through efforts including CAT Meetings where top management in housing sales companies meet  customers to receive feedback directly (see p. 41), the External Advisory Board on  Environment-Contributing Products (see p. 14), the Attractive Qualities Screening System, in which  the Attractive Qualities Screening Committee evaluates and screens products and services (see p.  21), and opportunities for direct dialogue between management and employees. Communication Between Management  and Employees Since fiscal 2002, Sekisui Chemical Group has provided opportuni- ties for employees to communicate with top management  proactively, based on its belief that it is essential to resolve  problems faced by the company as well as work-related issues  through direct communication between top management and  employees, who are important stakeholders. In fiscal 2011, continuing efforts begun in the preceding year,  the President of Sekisui Chemical visited six business sites across  Japan, including those of affiliate companies,  to discuss the current state of company  management, ideas, and other matters  with approximately 400 participants. In addition, the Urban  Infrastructure & Environmental  Products Company also provided  opportunities for direct discussion of  business strategies and ideas along with  lively exchange of opinions between the  President and employees. Dialogues with Overseas Socially Responsible Investment (SRI)  Rating Agencies In Europe and North America, there is considerable interest in socially responsible investment (SRI), in  which companies addressing CSR issues are chosen proactively as targets of investment, and much  research has been conducted by rating agencies. In light of the broad range of businesses it conducts,  each year the Sekisui Chemical Group visits SRI ratings agencies in Europe and elsewhere to ensure  that they have adequate and accurate understandings of its lines of business and its CSR efforts. In fiscal 2011, we strived to ascertain the latest CSR-related information by meeting with U.S.  experts, on the subjects of human rights and the environment. d  Takuhei Oohashi Tokyo Private Sector Sales office Private Sector Value Chain Sales  Department Higashinihon Sales Headquarters Urban Infrastructure & Environ- mental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Bases of CSR Disclosure & Communication Lets Talk with  the President Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Three Prominences Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Bases of CSR Business and CSR 58 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Despite its name of Childrens  Nature Study Course, this  activity gave participating  adults even more opportunity to  get in touch with nature and  experience its blessings, as we  observed together with children the  different living creatures that  appear in the seasons of spring and  fall, made catsup from tomatoes we  planted and harvested ourselves,  and ate lunch together using the  catsup we made, among other activities. VOICE Nature Conservation Sekisui Nature Study Course Since fiscal 1997, Sekisui Chemical Group has carried out the  Sekisui Nature Study Course as an opportunity to train leaders in  nature conservation activities and to implement activities to  contribute to the local community. Through fiscal 2010, these  had been held 51 times, with a total of more than 800 people  taking part. Beginning in fiscal 2011, the existing leader training portion  of this program was spun off to form a separate Leader Training  program. The Sekisui Nature Study Course evolved into a  program aimed at independent nature  conservation activities by business sites,  with even deeper roots in the  community, and it was conducted at  the Izumo Plant of Sekisui Seikei Ltd.  and at Chushikoku Sekisui Heim  Industry Co., Ltd. It will continue in  the future as well at various business  sites in Japan, aiming to raise aware- ness of the environment and create opportu- nities for nature conservation activities in partnership  with local communities. Policy Since their full-fledged start in fiscal 1997, Sekisui Chemical  Groups nature conservation activities began with the training  of leaders to be responsible for promotion of such activities at  each business site in Japan. In recent years the stage of such activities has broadened  as for example we have carried out activities at business sites  not just in Japan but overseas as well and, in addition, have  participated in nature conservation activities conducted by  outside organizations. Furthermore, we are carrying out a  broad range of natural and environmental conservation efforts  such as continual support for research utilizing our knowledge  of the natural sciences. Sekisui Chemical Grant Program for  Research on Manufacturing Based on  Innovations Inspired by Nature Sekisui Chemical Group began the Sekisui Chemical Grant  Program for Research on Manufacturing Based on Innovations  Inspired by Nature in fiscal 2002 to support the research  activities of universities and research institutions utilizing  knowledge of fundamental science learned from nature. Over  the 10-year period through fiscal 2011, this program collected  a cumulative total of 2,733 public placements, ultimately  awarding grants to 138 research themes. Of these, the  program awarded grants to 33 projects in the field of utilizing  natural resources and learning from natural materials, 49  projects in the field of learning from the functions of living  creatures, 34 projects in the field of learning from  living organism (about the activities of living),  and 22 projects in the field of learning from  ecology, the growth and development of  living creatures, etc. In the future as well, the program will  provide continual support to research  activities contributing to harmony between  nature and human beings. Masuo Komaki Production Section,  Izumo Plant Sekisui Seikei Ltd. Nature Conservation and Social Contribution Planting tomato  seedlings at  Sekisui Seikei Ltd. A panel  discussion 59 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  We are confident that environmental conservation activities are a top  priority for the future of the human race. Of these, reforestation  activities can have a variety of effects, such as the  reduction of the CO2 that is responsible of  problems like the greenhouse effect. This  also prevents the erosion of the soil,  contributing to maintaining rivers and  undercurrents and, of course, helps  also to preserve the ecosystem, such as  the fauna that live in the forests. During fiscal 2011 I had the  opportunity to participate in almost all  the events of tree-planting activities done  by Sekisui, from seed planting through  planting trees, and for me this was really  rewarding in the sense that you can really feel  you are doing something for the planet. I think  all of us should include this kind of activities in  our agendas. Nature Conservation in Mexico Sekisui S-Lec Mexico carries out nature conservation  activities such as tree planting to offset the carbon- dioxide emissions of the plant and its employees. In  fiscal 2011, these activities planted a total of 540  saplings, or seven trees per employees, on one hectare  of land. The activities started with planting seeds in February  2011, followed by watering during the dry season in  March and a tree-planting study meeting held jointly in  May with an organization working to revive forests in  Mexico. The main event of planting saplings took place  in July, with about 100 people, consisting of employees  and their families, taking part. By raising each  employees awareness of the  environment and tree  planting, we plan to help  protect the beautiful planet  and Mexicos natural  environment in the future  as well. Planting Mangrove Trees in Thailand Sekisui Chemical Group carries out nature conservation activities at five facilities overseas. Thailand, one of the  Groups bases of operations in Asia, is home to business sites of the Housing Company and the High  Performance Plastics Company. Employees of these sites take part in activities to plant mangrove trees. While mangroves have been cut down to create culture ponds for edible shrimp, their value has been  recognized anew for purposes such as maintenance of sustainable fishery resources, protecting the shoreline  from tides and wind, and mitigating climate change. Over 100 people, comprising of employees and local elementary-school  students, took part in the planting activities conducted in July 2011. One  employee commented, Next time I want to bring more colleagues along. In the  future as well, the Group will continue contributing to nature conservation in the  community as well as raising employees awareness through such activities. Biodiversity Activities at Mt. Fuji In advancing its consideration for biodiversity, Sekisui Chemical Group is carrying out activities intended to raise  employee awareness of biodiversity. Since 2010, we have carried out activities to eliminate the lanceleaf tickseed,  identified as an invasive alien species at the base of Mt. Fuji, in partnership with the NPO, FUJISAN CLUB, which  works to protect the natural environment of Mt. Fuji. It has been pointed out that propagation of the lanceleaf tickseed causes the problem of driving out diverse  species native to the area. Thus eliminating the lanceleaf tickseed will help preserve the areas native biodiversity. Conducted in June 2011, this activity welcomed approximately 30 participants including  employees of Sekisui Chemicals headquarters in Tokyo, their family members, and retired  employees. In about two hours, they eliminated enough lanceleaf tickseed to fill the  beds of two light pickup trucks. This activity provides a rare opportunity to think about the issue of invasive alien  species among other Sekisui Chemical Groups nature conservation activities. VOICE Ruben de los Reyes Sales Department Sekisui S-Lec Mexico  S.A. de C.V. Tree-planting  activities at  Sekisui S-Lec  Mexico Eliminating  lanceleaf  tickseed Planting  mangrove  trees Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Three Prominences Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Bases of CSR Business and CSR 60 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Environment Next Generation Local Communities Social Contribution Policy Sekisui Chemical Group advances social-contribution activities mainly  in the fields of the environment, the next generation, and local  communities. In addition to positioning such activities as initiatives made as a  corporate citizen living together with society, we also provide  support for activities to enable Group employees to play active roles  in society. Collaboration with Local Communities Since fiscal 2007, Sekisui Chemical Group has carried out social contribution activities utilizing the distinguish- ing features of its businesses. In the Housing Company, since fiscal 2009 housing sales companies across Japan have partnered with  prefectural police departments to distribute leaflets on prevention of crimes such as fraudulent remittance  requests. In addition, since fiscal 2007 the Housing Company has conducted the Houses and the  Environment Learning Program in four areas, as a program putting employees knowledge of housing and  the environment to use in the classroom. More than 5,000 junior high school students have taken part in  these classes through now. In the High Performance Plastics Company, since fiscal 2008 the Chemical Classroom Project, an  educational program that helps students experience the fun of chemistry, has been conducted for seventh  through ninth graders in the area where the institute is located. Through now, a total of approximately 2,400  students have taken part in these classes. In addition, since fiscal 2008 events have been held,  mainly for elementary-school students, to help children get a feel for the fun of science,  under the name of Science Class for Children. In response to a request from a local junior high school, Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd.  in the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company has since fiscal  2009 provided science classes for seventh graders. On the day of the class,  students also tour the Shikoku Sekisui plant to get an understanding for how the  familiar material of plastic is used to make a variety of products. In the future as well, Sekisui Chemical Group will advance social-contribution  activities utilizing its businesses. A science  class conducted  by Shikoku  Sekisui Co., Ltd.  When I was asked to serve as an instructor in the science class, I was very uncertain as to  whether I was capable of it. I decided to take on the challenge of teaching the class  thinking that it would be nice if I could, through this class, teach local junior high school  students about the knowledge of manufacturing that I have built up in the manufacturing  workplace until now and about how fun it is. In the class, I had the enjoyment of working with students who listened enthusiasti- cally to what I had to say, while I too wanted to help them as much as I could, and I felt that  we were learning together. When the students commented that the class was fun and that  they could understand plastics thanks to the instructors detailed explanations, I was truly glad  that I had accepted the role of teacher. I would like to cooperate as much as I can in future science classes as well. VOICE Hitoshi Higaki Production Department Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. 61 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Since fiscal 2009 Sekisui Chemical Group has implemented Table for Two, a program in  which 20 yen is added to the cost of a meal in employee cafeterias, with this amount  donated to support providing lunches to children in developing countries. In fiscal 2011, a  Table for Two photo exhibition was held at five facilities to publicize the program to  numerous employees. This program already has donated a total amount of more than 1.4  million yen, assisting in providing lunches to a cumulative total of 70,000 children in  developing countries. In addition, since fiscal 2009 Sekisui Chemical Group has conducted the Book Magic  program, in which participants sell unneeded books and CDs and contribute the proceeds to an  NPO to assist programs supporting education in developing countries. The number of business sites  hosting this program is increasing from year to year, and in fiscal 2011 numerous employees participated  in the program at the 12 sites where it took place. In the future as well, Sekisui Chemical Group will continue to deploy activities such as these that make it  easy for individual employees to take part. Social Contribution Activities that Make it Easy for  Individual Employees to Participate For purposes including environmental conservation and support for raising the next generation, Sekisui Chemical  Group provides economic support including donations to a variety of activities. Its donations in fiscal 2011 totaled  approximately 228 million yen. A typical example of such support is the matching gifts the company provides in amounts equal to or  surpassing donations collected from employees in response to disasters and other needs. In fiscal 2011, as aid for victims of the flooding in Thailand, Sekisui Chemical donated 10 million yen, and  donated a matching gift of 1.2 million yen to the government of Thailand in recognition of approximately 1.1  million yen donated from employees. In addition, since some employees of the Group member company Kydex, LLC. in North America were victims  of the flooding that occurred near Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania, where Kydex, LLC. is located, Sekisui America  Corporation donated a matching gift of $3,200 to the American Red Cross in recognition of donations from  employees of Group companies in North America. Donations Participation in the Community Taking advantage of the fact that it has sales companies and production sites across Japan,  Sekisui Chemical Group actively participates in local communities. For example, despite the fact that they belong to different division companies, Sekisui  Chemicals Gunma Plant and Gunma Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. have joined together since fiscal  2010 to hold the Sekisui Cup Girls Eight Soccer Tournament for eight-person teams of  elementary-school girls aged 12 and younger, in light of the fact that both companies do  business in Gunma Prefecture. Six teams from the prefecture took part in the tournament held in July 2011,  cheered on by more than 100 people including staff, parents, and siblings. Aside from this activity, Sekisui Chemical Group also continues other  activities to contribute to its communities, including cleanup activities in  the vicinity of business sites, accepting plant tours and work-training  program participants, and permitting use of plant athletic grounds for  community events. The Table  for Two photo  exhibition  The Sekisui  Cup Girls  Eight Soccer  Tournament  Environment CS & Quality Human Resources Three Prominences Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Bases of CSR Business and CSR 62 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Step 1 Step 2 Step 6 Step 5 Step 4 Step 3 Formulation of  review plan  Performance of  review  Review report  Check of  final edition of  CSR Report  Quality assurance  procedures  Submittal of  review report   view scope, subject  items, information  collection methods, etc. ision on review  procedures, review  schedule (Head- quarters, business  sites to be visited for  review), etc.  completed review,  matters for com- ment, etc.  such as matters  pointed out in Step 3 Check of appropr- iateness of the review  by professionals other  than the review team  Chemical Head- quarters  business sites (perfor- mance of procedures  including field obser- vation, analytical  procedures, docu- mentary verification,  inspection of mate- rials, and inquiries) - ment confirmation  letter Submittal of Inde- pendent Practitioners  Review Report TRANSLATION     Independent Practitioners Review Report    June 12, 2012  Mr. Naofumi Negishi,  President,  Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd.  Hiroshi Inanaga  Chief Executive Officer  Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification Organization Co., Ltd.        Scope and Purpose of Review  We have reviewed the CSR Report 2012 (including the separate CSR Report 2012 Data) (the Report)  prepared by Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. (the Company). The purpose of our review was to provide limited  assurance as an independent practitioner, based on our review procedures, on whether:  material sustainability information indicated with the verification logo for the period from April 1, 2011 to March  31, 2012 included in the Report was accurately measured and calculated with reference to the Environmental  Reporting Guidelines - 2012 version (issued by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment) and GRI  Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 3.1), and in accordance with the calculation methods adopted by  the Company;  no material items listed in the Appendix: Requirements for Logotype Registration of Sustainability Reporting  (issued by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information in February 2011)  were omitted;  the Companys self-declaration on the GRI application level conforms to the application level criteria stipulated  by the GRI.      Responsibility of the Management and Responsibility of the Independent Practitioner  The Report is the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to provide our limited assurance  with respect to the Report based on our review performed as an independent practitioner.  Summary of Review   To obtain an adequate and valid basis for providing limited assurance with respect to our conclusions, we performed  our review in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (issued by the  International Federation of Accountants in December 2003), and the Practical Guideline for Assurance Engagement  of Sustainability Information (issued by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability  Information in April 2012).  The review procedures performed for the material sustainability information indicated with the verification logo for  the period from April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012 stated in the Report consisted of: 1) agreeing such information in  summary schedules with supporting documents on a sample basis; 2) making inquiries to responsible personnel and  persons in charge; 3) reviewing relevant minutes, Company regulations, and ISO-related documents, etc.; 4) site  visits; and 5) comparing such information with other available supporting materials, both internal and external.  Conclusion  In performing our review procedures described in the preceding paragraph, nothing has come to our attention that  caused us to believe that the material sustainability information with the verification logo for the period from April 1,  2011 to March 31, 2012 included in the Report was not accurately measured or calculated, with reference to the  Environmental Reporting Guidelines - 2012 version (issued by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment) and  GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 3.1), and in accordance with the calculation methods adopted by  the Company, in all material respects, or that any material items listed in the Appendix: Requirements for Logotype  Registration of Sustainability Reporting (issued by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for  Sustainability Information in February 2011) were omitted, or that Companys self-declaration on the GRI  application level does not conform to the application level criteria stipulated by the GRI.  Special Interests  There are no interests between the Company and Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification Organization Co.,  Ltd. or its engagement personnel, requiring disclosure based on the provisions of the Japanese Association of  Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information.  Summary of Independent Practitioners Review Procedures Sites visited: Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Osaka Headquarters and Tokyo Headquarters, Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd., Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. Independent Practitioners Review Report 63 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Since Sekisui Chemical Group began full-fledged CSR efforts in fiscal  2005, it has published the CSR Report (titled the Environmental and  Social Report in fiscal 2005 – 2006) with chapters organized around  Sekisui Chemical Groups CSR concept, based on the Three Prominences  of the Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources and its Three  Attitudes of Sincerity in Compliance, Risk Management, and Disclosure &  Communication, to communicate this concept to parties both inside  and outside the Group and to promote its spread. In recent years, as readership of the Report has grown, demands for  disclosure of information have increased and the information in demand  has grown more diverse. At the same time, in Sekisui Chemical Group  the business characteristics and CSR efforts of each division company  differ, and the necessity of clearly defining the characteristics of each  division company in enhancing and promoting CSR efforts within the  organization has become more important. For these reasons, while maintaining the quality and quantity of  information that have been so highly regarded by outside parties in past  reports and making the thinking behind measures and their specific  efforts easily understandable, this Report adds new pages on individual  division companies and employs a chapter structure that reports  specifically on the initiatives of each division company. The introduction in the opening pages of the Report adopts a  content structure that makes Sekisui Chemical Groups concepts and  CSR philosophy understandable to ordinary readers. The chapter on  each of the Three Prominences reports on policies, objectives, measures,  and results for Sekisui Chemical Group as a whole. Reports on relations  between business and society, priority CSR issues, and examples of  efforts follow, for each of the three division companies. The second half  of the Report reports on the Three Attitudes of Sincerity and on nature  conservation and social contribution initiatives. The separate Data Book  provides detailed information on efforts along with performance data. In addition to disclosing as much information as possible on our CSR  efforts through this Report and accepting opinions from both inside and  outside the Group, efforts such as undergoing an independent  practitioners review to ensure the accuracy and objectivity of the  information disclosed are intended to advance CSR management efforts  and improve the content of this Report. We would very much appreciate  hearing the frank opinions of our readers (csr@sekisui.com). Such  opinions will serve as valuable references for Sekisui Chemical Groups  future CSR efforts and in the preparation of future reports as well. 1947 Establishment of Sekisui Sangyo Co., Ltd. Started first injection  molding business in Japan. 1948 Change of company name to Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. 1950 Began selling cellophane tape. 1952 Started full-scale production of PVC pipe (Eslon Pipe). 1953 Listed on Osaka Stock Exchange. 1956 Developed Japans first plastic rain gutter (Eslon Rain Gutters). 1959 Established Sekisui Sponge Industries Co., Ltd. (now Sekisui Plastics  Co., Ltd.) with co-financing from Shin-Nippon Chisso Hiryo Co., Ltd.,  Asahi Kasei Corporation and others, to commercialize plastic foam. 1960 Established Sekisui House Sangyo Co., Ltd. (now Sekisui House  Co., Ltd.) and started the housing business. 1962 Launched Movement for Cleaner Towns featuring our plastic  garbage bins (Poly-pail), as a campaign to mark the companys 15th  Anniversary. Cleaning revolution subsequently spread nationwide. 1963 Started producing plastic bathtubs (first in Japan). Modular  toilet tank commercialized, paving the way for production of  modularstyle equipment. 1970 Exhibited modular house (Sekisui Heim) at the International Good  Living Show in Tokyo. 1971 Started producing and selling Japans first modular house, Heim M1. 1972 Established original Environmental Management Department.  Launched company-wide commitment to pollution control. 1979 Awarded Deming Prize for quality management in recognition of  results of aggressive TQC activities. 1981 Adopted twin-headquarters system (Osaka and Tokyo), and estab- lished Tokyo Headquarters at Toranomon, Tokyo. Began producing  and selling timber-framed modular house, Two-U Home. 1991 Established Basic Policies on environmental issues. 1993 Introduced divisional system, shifting to the seven divisions Pipe &  Related Products, Building Materials, Chemicals, Techno-products,  Molded Products, Medical Products, and Housing. 1994 Began activities to earn ISO 9000-series quality-management  system certification. 1996 Paid-in capital surpassed 100 billion yen.   Adopted new headquarters logo.   Announced Top Management Policy for Environment and Safety.   Began activities to earn ISO 14001 environmental-management  system certification. 1997 50th Anniversary of company founding.   Launched Sekisui Chemical Group nature protection activities.   Created Womens Athletic Club. 1998 Instituted Corporate Activity Guidelines.   Initiated zero waste emission activities. 1999 Midterm Management Vision: GS21 takes effect.   Instituted Corporate Philosophy.   Concentrated business into three domains: Housing, Urban Infrastruc- ture & Environmental Products, and High Performance Plastics.   Midterm Environmental Plan: STEP-21 takes effect.   Began publishing Environmental Reports. 2001 Launched the division company system, establishing the three di- vision companies the Housing Company, the Urban Infrastructure  & Environmental Products Company, and the High Performance  Plastics Company.   Achieved zero waste emissions in all house production plants and  all plants of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. 2003 Midterm Management Vision: GS21-Premium 600 takes effect.   Established the Environmental Management Promotion Depart- ment (now CSR Department Environmental Management Group).   Midterm Environmental Plan: STEP-2005 takes effect.   Achieved zero waste emissions at all house construction sites. 2004 Established the CS & Quality Management Department (now CSR  Department CS & Quality Group).   Developed the CS & Quality Management Midterm Plan.   Achieved zero waste emissions in all construction by house  renovation companies. 2005 Established the CSR Committee.   Published the Environmental and Social Report. 2006 Midterm Management Vision: GS21-Go! Frontier takes effect.  Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan Part  1 takes effect. 2007 60th anniversary of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. founding. Global  Childrens Eco Summit and Manufacturing Based on Learning  from Nature—Junior Forum held. Conducted reviews of the CSR  Committee and Headquarters organization.   Published the CSR Report. 2008 CSR policies established and revised. 2009 Midterm Management Vision: GS21-SHINKA! takes effect.   Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan  SHINKA! takes effect. 2010 Manufacturing Based on Innovations Inspired by Nature Forum  held in Nagoya. 2011 Safety Subcommittee established. History of Sekisui Chemical Group Editors Notes 64 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012  Published: June 27, 2012. Published annually. Previous edition published: June 29, 2011. Next edition planned for publication: June 2013 4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Bldg.) URL: http://www.sekisuichemical.com For further information contact: CSR Planning Group, CSR Department 2-3-17 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8450, Japan (Toranomon 2-chome Tower) Email: csr@sekisui.com This report has been printed and bound with consideration for the  environment in the following ways: (1) This report uses Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified paper produced  from carefully managed forests. (2) The computer-to-plate (CTP) method of direct printing, which uses no film  that later must be disposed of as waste, has been adopted in the  plate-making process. (3) Vegetable-oil ink, which generates few volatile organic compounds (VOC)  and has excellent biodegradability and de-inking performance, is used in  the printing process. In addition, waterless printing, which generates no  hazardous waste fluids, has been used as well. (4) Glue that does not hinder the recyclability of paper is used in the binding  process. CSR Report 2012 (including the separate data  volume) has been reviewed by an independent  third party and as a result has been granted the  sustainability report review and registration logo.  This demonstrates that this report satisfies the  necessary criteria established by the Japanese  Association of Assurance Organizations for  Sustainability Information (J-SUS;  http://www.j-sus.org/) for the use of this logo,  intended to assure the reliability of sustainability  information.  Management Benchmarks (Consolidated) Coverage of the Environmental Performance Data Progress on the Midterm Environmental Plan Sekisui Chemical Groups Environmental Accounting Sekisui Eco Value Index Material Balance (in Japan)  Environment-Contributing Products Product Assessments System for Environmental Impact Biodiversity Global Warming Prevention Resource Recycling and Saving Environmental Performance of Domestic Offices Atmospheric, Water, and Soil Related Emissions Environmental Incidents and Complaints,  and Emergency Responses Chemical Substances Environmental Management CS & Quality Human Resources Safety Compliance Nature Conservation and Social Contribution Sekisui Chemical Groups CSR Management System Sekisui Chemical Groups CSR Management Policies 1 2 3 5 7 7 8 8 8 9 10 11 12 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 CSR Report 2012 Data Book Scope of Independent Practitioners Review The environmental and social information in this report  has been subjected to the independent practitioners  review for the appropriateness of calculation methods and  the accuracy of the results of calculation. The Verified  logo is used to indicate that each item of such subject  information has been reviewed. Verified  Housing Company 10,000 6,000 8,000 4,000 2,000 0 (100 million yen) 2008 2010 2,626 2,252 9,342 4,244 179 218 2,816 1,955 4,186 Others 195 2007 2,804 2,337 4,199 244 9,586 9,154 2009 2,476 1,946 8,585 3,982 2011 2,968 2,000 4,493 190 9,650 Urban  Infrastructure & Environmental  Products  Company High  Performance  Plastics  Company Sales (by Each Division Company) (100 million yen) (%) 2010 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 20 15 10 5 0 2009 2007 2008 19.7 16.4 16.2 16.2 2011 19.6 47 450 667 385 59 389 476 590 68 376 415 550 89 528 506 675 1,800 1,515 1,551 1,409 104 564 570 655 1,895 Others North  America Europe Asia Overseas Sales and Sales Ratio 300 200 100 0 (100 million yen) 2007 2008 2010 246 2009 240 254 257 2011 256 R&D Costs (100 million yen) 2007 2008 2010 2009 151 400 500 100 300 200 0 300 200 100 126 371 77 123 2011 Cash Flows 10,000 6,000 8,000 4,000 2,000 0 (100 million yen) 2010 7,901 2009 7,872 2008 7,564 2007 7,828 2011 8,271 Total Assets 400 600 200 0 200 (100 million yen) 2007 2008 2010 243 15 493 243 Housing Company Others 2009 157 16 335 171 244 61 430 141 17 192 359 194 9 24 2 9 205 29 546 310 2 2011 High  Performance  Plastics  Company Urban  Infrastructure & Environmental  Products  Company Operating Income (by Each Division Company) 20 0 5 10 15 (Yen) 2010 13 2009 10 2008 10 2007 15 2011 15 500 300 400 200 100 0 (100 million yen) 2007 2008 2010 252 2009 440 312 345 2011 330 Capital Expenditures Annual Dividend Per Share 21,000 14,000 7,000 0 (persons) Housing Company Headquarters Urban  Infrastructure & Environmental  Products  Company High  Performance  Plastics  Company 1,031 1,029 1,049 1,060 1,022 5,655 5,620 5,408 5,265 6,443 2010 4,447 8,637 19,770 2009 4,634 8,478 19,761 2008 4,765 8,520 19,742 2007 4,025 8,557 18,907 2011 4,570 8,820 20,855 400 300 200 100 0 (100 million yen) 2007 2008 2010 345 2009 345 365 305 2011 351 Depreciation and Amortization Number of Employees Interest-bearing  debt Interest-bearing  debt as a  percentage of  equity capital (%) 1,500 1,200 900 600 300 0 50 40 30 20 10 0 (100 million yen) 2010 1,245 36.6 2009 1,330 38.9 2008 1,294 40.2 2007 920 25.7 2011 1,271 36.2 Interest-bearing Debt and  Interest-bearing Debt as a Percentage  of Equity Capital 9 6 3 0 (%) 6.4 0.3 6.9 8.1 2007 2008 2009 2011 3.5 2010 ROE Management Benchmarks (Consolidated) 1  Coverage of the Environmental Performance Data Housing Company Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products Company R&D institutes Japan Overseas1 Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Site Production plants Sales and construction  companies Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kinki Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. etc. Sekisui Heim Sales Companies Construction and Service Companies 1 company and  1 business site 11 companies and  10 business sites 28 companies and  97 business sites 40 companies and 108 business sites in total Total: 77 companies and 147 business sites High Performance Plastics Company High Performance Plastics Company R&D institutes Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Minase Site Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. ADME & Tox. Research Institute Production plants Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Amagasaki Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Film Co., Ltd Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. etc. Kydex, LLC. Allen Extruders, LLC. Eslon B.V. Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd.   Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd.   Wuxi SSS-Diamond Plastics Co., Ltd.  Yongchang Sekisui Composites Co., Ltd. Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Lawrence Plant Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Coldwater Plant Sekisui Alveo B.V. Sekisui Alveo Ltd. Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. Sekisui Pilon Pty. Ltd. YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Daejeon Plant YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Cheongwon Plant YoungBo HPP (Langfang) Co. Ltd. Sekisui TA Industries, LLC. Brea Plant Sekisui TA Industries, LLC. Tennessee Plant Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Film Plant Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Resin Plant Sekisui S-Lec Thailand Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Pasadena Plant Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Calvert City Plant Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Xeno Tech, LLC. American Diagnostica Inc.2 2 companies and  2 business sites 11 companies and  14 business sites 11 companies and 16 business sites in total Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products Company R&D institutes Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd.  Kyoto Research & Development Laboratories  Production plants Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. / Ryuseki Jyubi Co., Ltd. Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant 1 company and  1 business site 20 companies and  11 business sites 20 companies and 12 business sites in total 7 business sites in total 24 business sites in total Headquarters R&D institutes Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Development Center Production Plants and Headquarters Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Osaka Headquarters and  Tokyo Headquarters, etc. 1 company and  1 business site 8 companies and  10 business sites 8 companies and 11 business sites in total The total number of companies and business sites do not match, since some companies have two or more business sites, and some business sites are shared by  two or more companies. 1 Calculation period: January 1 - December 31, 2011 2 Data was collected only for wastes and CO2 emissions. 2  Efforts Targets for Fiscal 2013 Improving overall environmental management efficiency Achieving a Sekisui Eco Value Index at least three times the fiscal 2007 value Improving  Environment- Contributing  Products Increase selling of Environment-Contributing Products Environment-Contributing Products at least 40% of consolidated net sales Promoting development of Environment-Contributing Products Number of products certified as Environment-Contributing Products: 30   (fiscal 2009 – 2013 5 years) Further reducing the environmental impacts of business activities Reduction in emissions of greenhouse  gases (GHG)  Reducing  greenhouse-gas  (GHG)  emissions Domestic production sites Reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by at least 10% compared to fiscal 2007  (at least 20% compared to fiscal 1990) Laboratories Reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by at least 20% compared to fiscal 2007 Domestic offices Reducing CO2 emissions by at least 10% compared to fiscal 2007 Overseas production sites Reducing energy consumption per unit of output by at least 5% compared to  fiscal 2008 Overseas offices Reducing energy use per capita by at least 10% compared to fiscal 2008  Promoting  energy conservation Domestic production sites Reducing energy used per unit of output by at least 7% compared to fiscal  2007, when converted into thermal units During shipment in Japan Reducing energy consumption per unit of output by at least 5% compared to  fiscal 2007 Efficient utilization of resources Reducing  wastes Domestic production sites Reducing waste generated per unit of output by at least 40% compared to  fiscal 2007 Overseas production sites Reducing waste generated per unit of output by at least 25% compared to  fiscal 2008 Domestic offices Reducing copier-paper use by at least 20% compared to fiscal 2007 Overseas offices Reducing copier-paper use by at least 20% compared to fiscal 2008  Reducing wastes at new construction sites Compared to fiscal 2000:  Sekisui Heim: 45% reduction Two-U Home: 62% reduction Reducing costs derived from waste materials Reducing loss costs by at least 5 billion yen compared to fiscal 2008  (accumulated amount from fiscal 2009 to 2013) Expanding  zero waste  emissions  Domestic production sites/laboratories Rate of achievement at sites reviewed: 100% Overseas production sites Rate of achievement at sites reviewed: 100% Recycling of waste materials produced during  dismantlement and expansion/renovation of  houses Implementing zero-emissions (i.e., recycling at least 98% of wastes) efforts in  at least 50% of demolition projects Reducing other  envi-ronmental  impacts Efficient water use Reducing water intake at domestic production sites by at least 10% compared  to fiscal 2007 Reduction in VOC emissions (legal and voluntary controlled  substances) Reducing atmospheric VOC emissions at domestic production sites and  laboratories by at least 60% compared to fiscal 2000 (at least 25% compared  to fiscal 2007) Consideration for  biodiversity Activities to  improve  environment  (conservation  of biodiversity) Efforts to conserve biodiversity Designing action plans for main production sites Support of nature conservation activities  by NGOs As Sekisui Chemical Group, providing aid to at least 10 nongovernmental  organizations per year in support of nature conservation activities Nature conservation activities in  collaboration with local communities Promoting nature conservation activities in at least five locations overseas Implementing nature conservation activities at all business sites At least 80% of employees (cumulative) participating over the three-year  period 2011-2013 Enhancing the environmental  management infrastructure Enhancing  environmental  management  systems (EMS) Attaining external EMS certification at  domestic production sites and laboratories Attaining external EMS certification at 100% of sites reviewed Attaining external EMS certification at  domestic construction companies Attaining external EMS certification at consolidated construction companies Attaining external EMS certification at  overseas production sites Attaining external EMS certification at 100% of sites reviewed Expanding EMS development in supply  chains Attaining external EMS certification at 100% of suppliers of residential building  materials supplying a fixed amount or more Expanding green procurement Achieving a green procurement rate of 98% or higher Soil and groundwater surveys Completion of surveys at nine subject sites Improvement of  education and  enlightenment Learning at least a certain degree of  environmental knowledge Reaching a total of at least 1,000 certified Environmental Specialists (Eco Test) Conducting environmental education for employees and management  overseas as well Developing leaders for nature conservation  activities Holding the Sekisui Nature Study Course at main production sites (45 plants,  five laboratories) Communication  with external  organizations Publishing site reports Continuing issuance at production sites, laboratories, and sales companies  that have acquired EMS certification Communication with local communities to  improve environment Continued implementation at eight domestic production sites Progress on the Midterm Environmental Plan Efforts and targets of the Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (FY 2009 – 2013) 3  Targets for Fiscal 2011 Results of Fiscal 2011  Verified Evalu- ation Page 2.4 times (compared to fiscal 2007) 2.62 times (compared to fiscal 2007) 12, Data 7 Percentage of consolidated net sales: 35% Sales of Environment-Contributing Products: 359.2 billion yen  Percentage of consolidated net sales: 37.2% 12, Data 8 Ten new products certified in fiscal 2011 14 new products certified in fiscal 2011  (fiscal 2009–2011 cumulative total: 31) - Reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by 12% compared to fiscal  2007 (reduced by 21% compared to fiscal 1990) Reduced by 12.2% compared to fiscal 2007  (reduced by 21.1% compared to fiscal 1990) 15, Data 9 Reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by 12% compared to fiscal 2007 Reduced by 32.0% compared to fiscal 2007 15, Data 9 Reducing CO2 emissions by 15% compared to fiscal 2007 Reduced by 14.9% compared to fiscal 2007 15, Data 9 Reducing energy consumption per unit of output by 3% compared  to fiscal 2008 Increased by 11.8% compared to fiscal 2008 - Collection of data from subject sites Performance data collected from nine subject sites - 4.2% reduction per unit of output compared to fiscal 2007 2.8% decrease compared to fiscal 2007 Data 9 3% reduction in energy consumption per unit of output compared  to fiscal 2007 3.2% decrease compared to fiscal 2007 Data 9 12% reduction per unit of output compared to fiscal 2007 8.5% decrease compared to fiscal 2007 16, Data 10 15% reduction per unit of output compared to fiscal 2008 24.6% increase compared to fiscal 2008 Data 10 Copier-paper use: 12% reduction compared to fiscal 2007 1.3% decrease compared to fiscal 2007 Data 11 Collecting data from subject sites Collected performance data from nine subject sites - Compared to fiscal 2000: Sekisui Heim: 38% reduction                                               Two-U Home: 57% reduction Compared to fiscal 2000: Sekisui Heim: 32% reduction                                               Two-U Home: 49% reduction 16, Data 10 Loss costs: 830 million yen in fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2009–2011: cumulative 2.27 billion yen compared to fiscal 2008 Reduced by 470 million yen in fiscal 2011; cumulative total  reduction: 2.01 billion yen (compared to fiscal 2008) Note: Revised method of calculating loss costs - Fiscal 2011: three new sites to be certified, certification rate by 95% Three new sites certified, achieved at 95% of sites Data 10 Achieved at 50% of sites reviewed Achieved at 17% of sites reviewed - Demolition recycling rate: 96% Demolition recycling rate: 94%  (99% recycling rate for designated construction materials) - Reducing water intake by 6% compared to fiscal 2007 Reduced by 3.4% compared to fiscal 2007 16, Data 11 Reducing VOC atmospheric emissions by 55% compared to fiscal  2000 (reducing by 15% compared to fiscal 2007) Reduced by 52.4% compared to fiscal 2000  (reduced by 9.2% compared to fiscal 2007) 17, Data 13 Assesing two model sites and drafting action plans Assessment of model 3 sites completed, planning efforts continue 18 Providing aid to ten organizations Aid provided to five organizations - Implementing activities at two sites (Suzhou, China and Thailand) Completing planning on northern China, completing surveys in  North America and Europe Implemented at three sites (Suzhou, China, Thailand, and North America) Planning completed on northern China and Europe, and decision  made on implementation in 2012 18 Implementing nature conservation activities at 50 sites Nature conservation activities conducted at 47 business sites - Attained at 96% of sites reviewed One site newly certified in fiscal 2011 Attained at 98% of sites reviewed Two sites newly certified in fiscal 2011 12, Data 14 Reviewing subject companies for study of consolidation of  production and sales companies in the Housing Company Subject companies reviewed Attained at 66% of sites reviewed; no sites newly certified - EMS certification attained at 75% of sites reviewed EMS certification attainment rate: 72% Four sites newly certified in fiscal 2011 - External EMS certification attained: 93% EMS development rate: 89.4%  (External certification: 67.3%, independent EMS development: 22.1%) - Green procurement rate: at least 95% Green procurement rate: 96.9% Data 11 Four sites surveyed Surveys completed at four sites Surveys completed at a cumulative total of nine sites 17, Data 12 At least 200 persons 26 persons newly certified in fiscal 2011, for a cumulative total of 81  persons - Conducting CSR training Conducting e-learning on environment Conducting CSR training (for new employees and new members of  management) Conducting Environmental e-learning  - Holding Sekisui Nature Study Course at three sites Held at three sites, cumulative total of 28 sites 59, Data 19 Issuing at 42 subject sites Issued at 42 subject sites - Conducted at two or more sites Briefings for nearby residents or authorities held at four sites - Evaluation Column Key:    Outperformed target     Performed close to target (achievement rate of about 90% to 110%)    Failed to reach target Results of efforts conducted under the Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! for fiscal 2011 4  Items FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Category Description of main activities Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments 1) Costs within business areas Prevention of air, water, and noise pollution, etc. 1,675 182 1,800 118 1,689 142 Countermeasures against global warming (energy saving), etc. 252 704 333 387 469 674 Waste reduction, recycling, disposal, etc. 3,956 55 4,296 102 4,607 153 2) Upstream/downstream costs Cost increases due to URU, switching to packaging/packing methods  involving reduced environmental impact, greener purchasing, etc. 493 0 376 0 276 0 3) Administrative costs Environmental education, EMS maintenance, running costs for green  action organization, information disclosure, etc. 2,187 45 2,189 64 2,191 12 4) Research & Development costs Research and development on environmental conservation 2,561 14 1,506 16 3,301 15 5) Social activities costs Social contributions, etc. 70 8 77 0 70 0 6) Environmental damage costs Nature restoration, etc. 23 354 391 1 25 0 Total 11,217 1,363 10,967 688 12,628 996 Items FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Category Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Total amount of R&D costs1 and investment in the fiscal period (million yen) 24,010 24,119 24,695 18,559 25,611 17,200 Ratio of amount related to environmental conservation activities to total (%) 10.7 5.7 6.1 3.7 12.9  5.8  Environmental Conservation Benefits Environmental performance criteria: per unit of output; Total Self- evalu- ation Description of effects Item Unit FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Effeact (11-10) See page Item Unit FY2010 FY2011 Effects  within busi- ness areas Effects on in- vested resources Amount of energy  usage1 (1) Electricity TJ 3,345 3,522 3,370 -151  Data 9 (1) Energy usage  per unit of output  (electricity + fuel)1 GJ/ton 1.84 1.76  (2) Fuel TJ 2,312 2,434 2,288 -146  Data 9 Effects on envi- ronmental impact  and wastes (3) CO2 emissions2 Thousand tons 315.6 331.6 315.9 -15.6  Data 9 - - - - (4) Volume of environmental pol- lutants discharged3 Tons 659.3 810.8 617.8 -193.0  Data 13 - - - - (5) Wastes generated4 Thousand tons 36.0 39.5 36.1 -3.3  Data 10 (2) Waste generated  per unit of output kg/ton 42.7 38.3 (6) Outsourced disposal5 Thousand tons 0.32 0.24 0.03 -0.21  - (3) Outsourced disposal  per unit of output kg/ton 0.26 0.03 Upstream/  downstream  effects Effects related to  products/services CO2 reduction by photovoltaic power  generation, etc. (cumulative) Thousand tons 162 196 233 37 - - - - - Other benefits  to environmen- tal conservation Others6 Business sites attaining  ISO 14001 and other  certifications New acquisitions Numbers 3 2 6 - - Business sites attaining  ISO 14001 and other  certifications7 Total number  of business  sites 81 87 Renewals Numbers 14 16 12 - - Number of business sites achiev- ing zero emissions8 Numbers 1 2 3 - - Number of business sites  achieving zero emissions8 Total number  of business  sites 141 144 Description of effects FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Remarks Revenue (1) Profit on sales of v.aluable resources 204 206 267 Profit on sales of valuable resources from promotion of waste segregation and recycling Cost  savings (2) Savings from simplified packaging 32 44 12 (3) Cost savings through energy-saving activities 725 274 451 (4) Cost savings through waste-reduction activities, etc. 387 696 966 Including resource-saving activities Sub-total (actual effects) 1,347 1,220 1,696 (5) Contribution to environmental conservation activities9 6,228 7,603 8,420 Contribution of environmental conservation activities to added value at business sites10 (6) External Economic Effect 12,598 12,957 16,165 Monetary conversion of impact from photovoltaic generation systems and No-Dig pipe rehabilitation method Sub-total (estimated effects) 18,827 20,560 24,585 Total 20,174 21,779 26,281 To promote efficient environmental management and fulfill corporate  accountability responsibilities, Sekisui Chemical Group employs environmental  accounting that makes it possible to ascertain the costs and effects of  environmental conservation activities. Calculation is conducted by referring  to the Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 issued by the Japanese  Ministry of the Environment, with the addition of Sekisui Chemical Groups  own concepts such as external economic benefits (estimated effects). The costs of R&D increased in fiscal 2011 in connection with an increase in  the number of themes concerning the environment. The costs of recovery from environmental damage and similar situations  decreased, while expenses rose from the previous fiscal year.  At the same time, the investment side showed increased investments in  global warming prevention measures (energy conservation) in connection  with responses to electric power issues. A look at economic effects shows that  the amount of cost reductions from energy-conservation activities increased,  as did the amount of cost savings from waste reduction and other activities.  In addition, external economic effects from homes installed with solar power  systems and other efforts are also increasing steadily. Scope of environmental accounting (1) Summation period: April 1, 2011 through March 31, 2012 (2) Scope of summation: 40 target production sites (as listed on Data p. 2) + 4 Laboratories + each department of Headquarters + back offices of division  companies + 15 housing sales companies (3) Principles of summation    (4) Note  companies + 14 housing sales companies Due to the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake, data could not be collected from the following sites in fiscal 2010: Production sites: Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. and the Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant Housing sales company: Sekisui Heim Tohoku Co., Ltd. Environmental Conservation Costs (Sekisui Chemical Group) Environmental Conservation Benefits (Sekisui Chemical Group) Economical Effects Related to Environmental Conservation Measures (Sekisui Chemical Group) (million yen) (million yen) 9  Excluding housing sales companies 10  (Added value from business sites)  {(Costs within business areas + Administrative costs)/(Total production costs excluding materials costs)} 1 Conversion into thermal units uses the coefficient published by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. 2  Emissions at the time of manufacturing and conversion to CO2 amounts use the coefficients  used in the Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (see Data p. 9). 3  Applicable to Class I Designated Chemical Substances specified by PRTR Law. 4  Amount discharged + Amount disposed of at price +  Amount incinerated within own premises. 5  Simple incineration + Landfill. 6  Including business sites not subject to environmental accounting summation, such as overseas business sites. 7  A cumulative total  number of sites reviewed for factors such as consolidation and return of certifications for housing sales companies. 8  A business site affiliated to multiple companies is counted as one. 1 R&D cost is the total for all consolidated companies. Sekisui Chemical Groups Environmental Accounting Verified 5  Description of effects 37 0 25 19 82 3,364 11,364 14,728 14,810 11 5 25 149 189 1,948 4,801 6,748 6,937 196 7 379 773 1,355 2,707 - 2,707 4,063 267 12 451 966 1,696 8,420 16,165 24,585 26,281 Rev- enue Cost  savings Subtotal (actual effects) (5) Contribution to environmental conservation  activities11 (6) External Economic Effect Sub-total (estimated effects) Total (1) Profit on sales of valuable resources (2) Savings from simplified packaging (3) Cost savings through energy-saving    activities (4) Cost savings through waste-reduction    activities, etc. Profit on sales of valuable resources from promotion of  waste segregation and recycling         Including resource-saving activities         Contribution of environmental conservation activities to  added value at business sites12 Monetary conversion of impact from photovoltaic gene-  ration systems and No-Dig pipe rehabilitation method Remarks Housing Company1 Urban Infra- structure &  Environmental  Products Company High Performance  Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical  Group2 11 Excluding housing sales companies 12 (Added value from business sites) x {(Costs within business areas + Administrative costs)/(Total production costs excluding materials costs)} Economic Effects Related to Environmental Conservation Measures (by Each Division Company) Items Total amount of R&D costs3 and investment in the fiscal period (million yen) Ratio of amount related to environmental conservation activities to total (%) Items 1) Costs within  business areas 2) Upstream/down- stream costs 3) Administrative costs 4) Research & Deve- lopment costs 5) Social activities costs 6) Environmental  damage costs Total Prevention of air, water, and noise pollution, etc. Countermeasures against global warming (energy saving), etc. Waste reduction, recycling, disposal, etc. Cost increases due to URU, switching to packaging/packing methods  involving reduced environmental impact, greener purchasing, etc. Environmental education, EMS maintenance, running costs for  green action organization, information disclosure, etc. Research and development on environmental conservation Social contributions, etc. Nature restoration, etc. 1,019 116 3,934 238 670 128 31 0 6,136 0 188 1 0 0 0 0 0 189 49 90 311 5 253 1,618 4 0 2,329 33 59 132 0 2 15 0 0 240 557 136 322 6 273 981 18 25 2,318 46 360 20 0 6 0 0 0 433 1,689 469 4,607 276 2,191 3,301 70 25 12,628 142 674 153 0 12 15 0 0 996 4,109 3.1  4,467 4.2  5,347 30.3 2,220 10.8  9,209 4.7  25,611 12.9 11,920 8.2  17,200 5.8  Category Description of main activities 1 Including 38 business sites of housing sales companies 2 Total of three division companies and departments of Headquarters 3 R&D cost is the total for all consolidated companies. Items 1. Prevention of global warming 2. Ozone layer protection 3. Conservation of air quality 4. Prevention of noise and vibration 5. Conservation of water environment,  soil environment, ground quality 6. Waste reduction and recycling 7. Reduction of chemical substances 8. Conservation of natural environment 9. Others Total Reduction of CO2 emissions, etc. Reduction of Chlorofluorocarbon emissions, etc. Prevention of air pollution by reducing polluting  substances Prevention of noise and vibration pollution Preservation of water quality, prevention of  subsidence Reduction and treatment of waste, recycling, etc. Risk management of chemical substances, etc. Nature conservation, etc. Others 112 4 284 6 205 4,207 596 55 668 6,136 188 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 189 111 0 33 3 22 334 3 62 1,761 2,329 58 0 0 0 32 132 0 0 18 240 142 3 282 7 259 325 50 38 1,211 2,318 359 1 4 2 28 20 11 0 7 433 Category Description of main activities Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Housing Company1 Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical Group2 Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Housing Company1 Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical Group2 Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Housing Company1 Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical Group2 493 7 638 18 511 4,909 650 182 5,221 12,628 672 1 12 50 68 153 11 0 29 996 1 Including 38 business sites of housing sales companies 2 Total of three division companies and departments of Headquarters Environmental Conservation Cost (by Each Division Company) (million yen) Environmental Conservation Cost (by Environmental Conservation Measures) (million yen) Data 9 Data 9 Data 9 Data 13 Data 10 -     -151  -146  -15.6  -193.0  -3.3  -0.21  37 - - - 3,370 2,288 315.9 617.8 36.1 0.03 233 6 12 3 3,522 2,434 331.6 810.8 39.5 0.24 196 2 16 2 -105  -161  -14.1  -206.8  0.0  -0.11  - - - - 1,033 1,807 153.1 529.0 19.5 0.02 - 4 3 0 1,137 1,968 167.2 735.8 19.5 0.12 - 0 1 1 -20  3  -0.8  13.3  -0.2  0.00  - - - - 1,312 116 82.0 80.6 6.2 0.00 - 1 5 0 1,332 112 82.8 67.4 6.4 0.00 - 2 4 0 -13  -1  -0.8  0.3  -2.9  0.00  37 - - - 422 117 31.2 4.3 8.3 0.00 233 0 1 0 435 118 32.0 4.0 11.3 0.00 196 0 6 0 4 Conversion into thermal units uses the coefficient published by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. 5 Emissions at the time of manufacturing and conversion to CO2 amounts use the coefficients  used in the Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (see Data, p. 9). 6 Applicable to Class I Designated Chemical Substances specified by PRTR Law 7 Amount discharged + Amount disposed of at price +  Amount incinerated within own premises 8 Simple incineration + landfill 9 Including business sites not subject to environmental accounting summation, such as overseas business sites 10 A business site  affiliated to multiple companies is counted as one. - FY2010 FY2011 Effect  (11-10) FY2010 FY2011 Effect  (11-10) FY2010 FY2011 Effect  (11-10) FY2010 FY2011 Effect  (11-10) Environmental Conservation Benefits Description of effects Items Unit Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical Group See page Effects within  business areas Other benefits to  environmental  preservation Upstream/  downstream  effects TJ TJ Thousand tons Tons Thousand tons Thousand tons Thousand tons Num- bers Num- bers Num- bers Amount of  energy usage4 (3) CO2 emissions5  (4) Volume of environmental   pollutants discharged6  (5) Wastes generated7   (6) Outsourced disposal8  CO2 reduction by photovoltaic  power generation, etc. ISO 14001  Certification Number of business sites  achieving zero emissions10  (1) Electricity (2) Fuel New  acquisitions Renewals Effects on  invested  resources Effects on  environmen- tal impact  and wastes Effects related  to products /services Others9 Environmental Conservation Benefits (by Each Division Company) (million yen) 6  Input Output Sekisui Chemical Group Energy and resources consumed, waste generated Integration of environmental impacts Eco Points (EIP) Major raw materials     Energy    Products Wastes  Emissions to atmos-  phere and water area     0 1,000 3,000 2,000 4,000 2007 2008 2009 (100 million yen) 1,466 49 37 52 74 1,912 1,786 200 150 100 50 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 (100 million yen) Energy Raw materials Emissions to  atmosphere  and water area Landll and  incineration 49 16 118 1 184 46 16 113 0.7176 99 21 0.6 163 43    Reducing Environmental Impact   0 1 2 3 2007 2008 2009 2010 2013 1.2 1.0 (Target) 3.0 1.4 2.2    2010  Photovoltaic  generation 37 93 3,026 3,156    99 26 0.6 171 45     Sekisui Chemical Group calculates Environmental  Added Value by totaling the sales of our Environment-Contributing Products and the external  economic benets provided to society through our products and businesses. External economic  benets are calculated by converting to monetary amounts the eects of reducing environmen- tal impacts when Sekisui Chemical Group products are used by customers or society. The total sum of the Groups environ- mental impact is calculated by addition of converted values of raw materials and energy used as  well as related landll and incineration of waste and emissions into the atmosphere and water,  which represent environmental impacts of diering units and eects on the environment, to the  Eco Point coecient using the JEPIX integration method.        1,552 1,623 59 46 1,728 The Sekisui Eco Value Index is an independent index utilized by Sekisui Chemical Group for measuring the eciency of our environmental  management activities.      Sekisui  Eco Value  Index Environmental Added Value  (converted to monetary amount) (= sales revenue from Environment- Contributing Products + external economic benets) Groups overall environmental impact (converted to coefficient) Sales of  Environment- Contributing  Products Waste  reduction by  the SPR  Method Input Output Main Raw Materials Metals  81,000 tons Wood, wooden  building materials  41,000 tons  Cement for  exterior walls  116,000 tons  Concrete for  foundations  249,000 tons PVC  141,000 tons Polyethylene  65,000 tons Polypropylene  28,000 tons Kraft paper  15,000 tons PRTR-designated  substances  118,000 tons Energy  5,659 TJ Purchased electricity  348,080 MWh Heavy oil A  5,155 kL  City gas   44,419 thousand m3 Industrial water   16,413 thousand tons To the atmosphere  CO2  from energy  consumption  316 thousand tons-CO2 NOx  217 tons SOx  15 tons Soot particles  2 tons PRTR-designated  substances  614 tons To water Water discharged  15,218 thousand tons  COD  63 tons PRTR-designated  substances  2.0 tons Wastes Total generated  waste  36 thousand tons Sekisui Chemical Group Note: Certain main raw materials are undisclosed for business strategy reasons. Sekisui Eco Value Index Material Balance (in Japan) P12 Verified Verified 7  0 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 15 5 35 25 2007 2013 2009 2010 (100 million yen) (%) 45 1,466 663 758 2008 50 1,623 731 841 56 677 1,053 Environment-Contributing Products Sales  and Sales-Ratio Trends 17.4% 15.3% 40.0% (Target) 20.8% Housing Company Sales Ratio Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Headquarters 3,026 719 221 7 2,078 33.1% 37.2% 1,786 2011 3,592 771 349 9 2,462 Verified Environment-Contributing Products conceptual diagram Criteria for Environment-Contributing Products Scope of environmental load reduction Environment-Contributing Products Sekisui Chemical Groups business activities Our customers and society as a whole Environmentally compatible products Environmental Contribution Products and  businesses that  demonstrably help reduce  the environmental load  of our customers and  society as a whole. Products or systems having at least a certain degree of effect on reducing environmental load compared to similar conventional products and systems High Low Definitions Products and businesses that demonstrably help reduce the  environmental load of our customers and society as a whole. Products or systems having at least a certain degree of eect on  reducing environmental load compared to similar conventional  products and systems Scope of Application Reduction of environmental load and resource depletion  related to the stages of customer use, disposal, and recycling  (excluding the stages of production, home construction, and  transportation within Sekisui Chemical Group) Reduction of impacts on the natural environment (e.g.,  reduction in greenhouse gases) and on the social environment  (e.g. waste reduction, resource conservation, and water  saving/recycling)  Laws and  regulations  Requirements of  industries etc. Self regulation  Laws and  regulations  Restricted  substances  Prohibited  substances Compliance Evaluation Chemical Substance Assessment Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact  Invested resources  Raw materials,  composition, and structure  Information disclosure  Environment-Contributing  Products standards  LCCO2 evaluation Environment-friendly design  Environmental impact  Means of transportation  Packaging materials  Green procurement  (Suppliers, raw materials) Raw material procurement  Capital Investments  Invested resources, energy Secondary resources used  Environmental impact  Atmosphere, water, wastes,  chemical substances, etc. Manufacture  Environmental impact  Means of transportation  Load-ecient design  Information Disclosure Transportation  Invested resources, energy Secondary resources used  Environmental impact  Atmosphere, water, wastes,  chemical substances, etc. Construction and assembly  Invested resources, energy Secondary resources used  Environmental impact  Atmosphere, water, wastes,  chemical substances, etc. Use  Composition and structure  Recyclability  Environmental impact  Transportation, disposal,  soil/groundwater  contamination Disposal Targets: products and processes Scope: all stages of the product lifecycle Environment-Contributing Products Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact Biodiversity P13 P14 P18 Initiatives Envisioned Under the Guidelines for Preservation of Biodiversity  Development of assessment methods, conducting assessment, lessening impacts  Promoting biodiversity-conscious purchasing  Greening of business sites (promoting landscaping and biotope development)  Incorporating biodiversity assessment in the product development stage  Conducting nature-conservation activities at all business sites  Expanding the Sekisui Nature Study Course and nature-conservation activities Support for nonprofit organization through the Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) and  other organizations  Exhibiting at the Eco-Products Exhibition and other events  Providing information in the CSR Report, Site Reports, and websites  Providing education for the next generation (Childrens Nature Study Course, school visits) 1. Assessment and reduction of the impact of  business activities on biodiversity 2. Development and promotion of related technologies and products 3. Raising employees awareness 4. Dialogue and cooperation with external stakeholders 5. Transmittance of information 8  Electricity usage 37% Fuel usage 63% 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 0 20 40 60 80 100 2008 2013 2009 Usage (TJ) Basic unit  performance Per unit  of output  performance 815 540 2,909 1,392 5,657 100.3 100 102.2 101.6 93 849 613 3,083 1,542 6,087 (Basic unit target) (Per unit of output target) 0 100 200 300 500 400 2008 2013 2009 1990 47 157 80 31 15 330 (Target) 346 41 203 108 37 44 433 49 36 167 88 24 365 City gas 31% Heavy oil A 3% Others  6% Fiscal 2011 5,659 TJ High Performance Plastics Company 18% Fiscal 2011 43,000 tons -CO2 Electricity 57% City gas 26% Other  gases 5% Fiscal 2011 342,000 tons -CO2 CO2 from other energy consumption 6% Heavy oil A 4% CO2 from  non-energy- consumption  sources 2% 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 0 20 40 60 80 100 2008 2013 2009 Transportation Volume  (10,000 ton-km) 5,555 6,746 5,071 10,731 7,107 8,032 100.8 100 95 102.6 5,889 12,024 33,051 Energy Usage and Per Unit of Output (Index)  During Manufacturing Greenhouse-gas (GHG) Emissions During Manufacturing Breakdown of Energy Used CO2 Emissions in  the Transportation Stage Amount of CO2 Emissions  (Overseas) Breakdown of Greenhouse- Gas (GHG) Emissions Transportation Volume and Energy Per Unit of Output (Index)  During Transportation See Data, p. 2 for scope of summation 0 5 10 20 15 2008 2013 2009 15.1 1.5 16.6 16.3 0.5 2007 16.8 (Target) 15.2 13.5 2.9 16.4 Other  greenhouse  gases CO2 from  energy  consumption  sources Under the New Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan  SHINKA!, progress is being made in reducing emissions of all green-house  gases. The conversion coecients for CO2 emissions are the values specied  (as of March 2009) under the greenhouse-gas emissions calculation, reporting,  and disclosure system established by Japanese law, with uniform gures used  for each scal year. Purchased electricity   0.555 tons CO2/MWh Heavy oil A    2.71 tons CO2/kL City gas    2.08 tons CO2/thousand Nm3 Heating oil    2.49 tons CO2/kL Diesel oil    2.62 tons CO2/kL Gasoline    2.32 tons CO2/kL LPG    3.00 tons CO2/ton Purchased steam  0.179 tons CO2/ton Source: Calculation and Reporting Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (published in March  2009 by Japanese Ministry of the Environment and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) 2010 Housing Company Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products  Company High Performance  Plastics Company Headquarters 50 167 83 329 341 2010 Housing Company Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products  Company High Performance  Plastics Company Headquarters 854 553 3,105 1,444 5,956 2010 Housing Company Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products  Company High Performance  Plastics Company Headquarters  5,391 7,082 4,946 10,507 2010 13.1 1.0 14.0 100.2 2011 50 153 82 31 26 342 97.2 2011 853 539 2,840 1,428 5,659 2011 5,657 8,090 4,898 11,499 30,144 96.8 2011 12.5 0.5 13.0 0 100 200 300 500 400 2007 2008 2009 1990 (1,000 tons-CO2) (1,000 tons-CO2) (1,000 tons-CO2) 365 433 389 2010 330 2011 341 342 160 156 350 419 452 2007 938 627 3,293 1,661 6,519 2007 8,075 8,027 6,761 13,273 36,136 28,103 27,926 Greenhouse gases  from non-energy- consumption sources 54 37 24 178 95 389 2007 CO2 emissions have been calculated using  the emissions coecients of the  greenhouse-gas protocol for electric  power and the emissions coecients of  the Environmental Top Runner Plan  SHINKA! for fuel. Electricity 59% Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products  Company  48% Headquarters 18% Housing Company 16% Fiscal 2011 Approx. 452,000 tons Amount transported in scal 2011: 300 million ton-  kilometers Calculation method: Either the improved ton-  kilometer method, fuel consumption method, or  fuel cost method, depending on the product and  transportation method Overseas Japan Greenhouse-gas (GHG) Emissions During Manufacturing Per unit of output index (FY 2007: 100) Per unit of output index (FY 2007: 100)   Greenhouse-gas Emissions from Laboratories Global Warming Prevention P15 Verified 9  Headquarters Assembly  plant Production sites See Data, p. 2 for scope of summation Laboratories New house  construction sites House renovation sites Osaka and Tokyo  Headquarters buildings Home demolition sites 0 30 20 10 60 50 40 0 60 120 100 80 40 20 2008 2013 2009 Waste generated (1,000 tons) Per unit of output index Per unit of output target 2.1 16.6 7.1 10.1 36.0 1.9 18.4 8.6 10.4 39.3 96.7 102.1 60 94.7 Waste Generated by Production Sites and Per Unit of Output  (Index)  Plastics waste 49.9% Glass and ceramics scrap 14.3% Sludge 13.2% Wastepaper 5.3% Wood chips 4.5% Metal scrap 3.0% Plasterboard 0.5% Oil waste, acidic waste, alkaline waste 6.9% Others 1.8% Burnt residue 0.5% Fiscal 2011 36,000 tons Fiscal 2011 Approx. 20,000 tons Recycling 71% Landll 22% Incineration 7% Breakdown of Generated Waste Waste Treatment Methods (Overseas) 0 2 1 3 5 4 2000 2008 2009 (tons) 1.03 1.04 1.95 4.02 0.29 0.59 1.29 2.18 2007 0.33 0.65 1.32 2.30 0.25 0.75 1.20 2.20 Waste Generated by New House Construction  (per house) Zero Emissions Achievement Criteria and  Accreditation System of Sekisui Chemical Group (1) Not engaging in any outside incineration without thermal utilization  (thermal recycling), or landll outside or inside of facilities (recycling ratio:  100%) (2) If the waste quantity is small and it is a type of waste that has never been  recycled before, recycling methods and relevant contractors must be  identied and a service agreement must be executed. We also have established uniform evaluation criteria known as the Zero  Emissions Achievement Evaluation List. We have established a system  designed to conduct internal checks and issue approvals for the status of  observance of the evaluation criteria as well as legal compliance, rules and  signage for waste segregation and storage, management of related facilities,  and waste reduction planning and management. The list obliges us to  conduct inspection of outside contractors and to clarify treatment routes in  order to enhance the management system through these activities. Status of Zero Emissions Achievement 2010 0.26 0.66 1.07 1.99 Exterior wall  plant 2010 Housing Company Urban Infra- structure &  Environmental  Products Company High Performance  Plastics Company 2.3 19.5 6.4 11.3 2011 0.23 0.45 1.08 1.76 91.5 2011 2.1 19.5 6.2 8.3 36.1 39.5 100 2007 2.1 9.6 20.8 11.2 43.6 Fiscal 2011 Annual Production-Site Waste Generation and Disposal Conditions Change over the previous year is in ( ) and proportion of the total generation is in [ ]. Per unit of outaput index (scal 2007: 100) Reuse within the premises 7,122 tons  (decreased by 10.2%) Total amount of  generated wastes  36,120 tons  (decreased by 8.4%)  [100%] Amount of  discharged wastes  21,958 tons  (decreased by 1.3%)  [60.8%] Outsourcing of  recycling resources  21,928 tons  (decreased by 0.4%)  [60.7%] Outsourced disposal 30 tons  (decreased by 87.2%) [0.1%] Landll 14 tons  (decreased by 92.5%) [0%] Valuable materials sold 14,163 tons (decreased by 17.7%) [39.2%] Materials recycling  16,008 tons  (increased by 0.9%)  [44.3%] Total amount of  materials  recycling  30,170 tons  (decreased by  8.8%) [83.5%] Use of incin- eration heat  5,920 tons  (decreased by  3.7%) [16.4%] On-site incineration (reduction) 0 tons  [0.0%] Simple incineration  16 tons  (decreased by 65.7%) [0%] New house  construction  site Achieved at four domestic laboratories as of scal 2005 Achieved at all locations as of September 2003 Achieved at all locations as of scal 2004 Achieved as of scal 2005 As of end of scal 2011, 99% recycling rate for Designated  Construction Materials (scrap concrete and wood) Achieved at 39 plants in Japan and three overseas plants,  including those of aliates. (Includes three plants in Japan  that achieved zero emissions in scal 2011) Resource Recycling and Saving P16 Verified 10  1)  OA paper (photocopier paper),  stationery, office supplies, office  automation equipment Any of those listed under (1)-(4) below: (1)  Those satisfying Eco Mark certification  standards (2)  Those in compliance with the Law Concerning  the Promotion of Procurement of Eco-Friendly  Goods and Services by the State and Other  Entities (3)  Those covered in the Green Purchasing  Networks database (4)  Those covered in catalogs as environment- friendly products 2)  Paper and paper products other  than OA paper and toilet paper  (forms, inkjet-printer paper,  color-printer paper, coated  paper, notebooks, vouchers,  business cards, paper used for  publications such as pamphlets  and catalogs, etc.) Any of those listed under (1)-(5) below: (1)  Those satisfying Eco Mark certification  standards (2)  Those in compliance with the Law Concerning  the Promotion of Procurement of Eco-Friendly  Goods and Services by the State and Other  Entities (3)  Those covered in the Green Purchasing  Networks database (4)  Those covered in catalogs as environment- friendly products (5)  Non-pulp paper or paper consisting of 70% or  more recycled paper, or paper with the highest  recycled content for the relevant type 3) Toilet paper 100% recycled toilet paper Green Purchase Guidelines Amount purchased          0 3,000 6,000 2008 2013 2009 5,077 2007 5,341 (Target) 4,273 4,866  0 5 10 20 15 2008 2007 19.0 2013 2009 (1,000 tons CO2) (10,000 sheets) 17.9 (Target) 17.1 16.7  2010 16.2 2010 4,928   The scope of data collection has been revised retroactively to fiscal 2007.   Amount of Water Extracted for Use (Overseas) 0 5,000 10,000 20,000 15,000 2008 2013 2009 (1,000 tons) 11,924 2,507 2007 2,082 12,310 2,344 16,985 249 2,204 16,923 (Target) 15,287 287 2,663 11,632 1,962 16,541 285 Amount of Water Extracted for Use at Production Site 2010 2,403 11,984 1,842 16,517 288 Headquarters Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Housing Company High Performance Plastics Company 2011 2,879 11,369 1,861 16,413 304 0 1,000 2,000 4,000 3,000 2009 (1,000 tons) 1,472 2010 3,049 2011 3,577 See Data, p. 2 for scope of summation Fiscal 2011 Green Purchases Performance Sekisui Chemical Group is committed to green purchasing of office supplies  for all its departments and branches. Environmental Performance in Domestic Offices P14, P15 Verified 11  Preventing Pollution Disposal and Storage of Machines and Equipment that Contain PCBs                                                                                          0 200 100 300 400 500 600 2007 2008 2009 (tons) (tons) (tons) (tons) 176 189 76 174 198 12 12 156 175 9 9 0 40 20 60 80 2007 2008 2009 6 44 10 61 1 10 7 1 64 62 46 7 1 45 9 0 5 15 10 20 25 2007 2008 2009 5 10 3 2 5 13 4 3 6 11 3 3 0 15 10 5 20 25 2007 2008 2009 Housing Company 1 1 0 2 5 10 1 3 1 4 1 2 NOx Emissions Volume COD Discharge Volume SOx Emissions Volume Soot and Dust Emission Volume 2010 Housing Company Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products  Company High Performance  Plastics Company 173  223 7 43 2011 168 217 6 44 2010 Housing Company Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products  Company High Performance  Plastics Company Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products Company High Performance  Plastics Company 2 6 2 2 2010 1 0.6 2 4 2010 Housing Company Headquarters Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products  Company High Performance  Plastics Company 7 45 15 68 1 Note: The Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant is not included in the data below due to the eects of the Great East Japan Earthquake. 2011 8 15 2 5 2011 0.7 1.2 2.5 2011 7 43 11 63 1 Verified Verified Verified Verified Verified Business Site Soil Surveys Business Site Surveyed Substance Site Survey Results (In Excess of Designated Standards) Shiga-Ritto Plant Tokyo Plant Lead, dichloromethane, 1,1,1-trichloroethane  and one degradation product thereof, dioxins Soil: Yes (lead) Groundwater: No Soil: Yes (lead, dioxins) Groundwater: No Soil: Yes (lead) Groundwater: No Soil: Yes (lead, dioxins) Groundwater: No Lead, cadmium, dichloromethane,  trichloroethylene and two degradation  products thereof, benzene, dioxins Lead, dichloromethane Lead, hexavalent chromium,  dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, dioxins Sekisui Aqua  Systems Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Ota Plant In scal 2011, we conducted surveys compliant with the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Law at four business sites.  Results of these surveys show levels in excess of soil-contamination standards in parts of the following sites: the  Shiga-Ritto Plant, the Tokyo Plant, the Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant, and the Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Ota Plant. Plans call for conducting countermeasures in accordance with the law at the site with values in  excess of soil-pollution standards. Description Countermeasures Simulated emergency situation Drills performed               Environmental Related Complaints Emergency Response and Reporting Drills Environmental Incidents, Complaints, etc. Emergency Response                       Noise Others                     Verified Atmospheric, Water, and Soil-Related Emissions Environmental Incidents, Complaints, and Emergency Responses 12  Summation Results Based on the PRTR Law (Calculations have been made for substances with handling volume of  one ton or more at the individual business sites surveyed.) 0 200 400 600 800 2008 2009 (tons) 584 44 659 10 7 63 596 53 730 2007 12 8 34 574 49 677 5 5 20 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 2008 2013 2009 2000 (tons) 4 6 1,457 119 1,585 4 27 1,380 149 (Target) 1,175 1,560 2007 4 46 1,336 153 1,539 14 55 2,401 467 2,936 Emission and Transfer Volumes by Substance (PRTR Law) Discharge of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)  into the Atmosphere 2010 Styrene Xylene Dichloromethane n-Hexane Others Toluene 587 154 34 811 5 5 26 2010 Housing Company High Performance  Plastics Company Headquarters 4 4 1,382 108 1,498 2011 4 4 1,267 123 1,397 Note: n-Hexane has been added to subject substances beginning with 2010 gures, due to   amendment of the PRTR Law. 2011 401 122 40 618 5 4 46 Urban Infrastructure &  Environmental Products  Company (tons) [4] [7] [9] [12] [13] [16] [20] [31] [35] [53] [76] [80] [Special 94] [132] [134] [144]   [154] [186] [213] [232] [239] [240] [270] [300] [Special 305] [349] [355] [392] [399] [Special 411] [412] [415] [420] [438] [448] 12.8 300.5 371.5 348.5 42.9 4.7 9.0 29.7 263.1 2.2 56.8 23.2 110,282.0 1.4 2.2 122.4   7.5 359.5 4.0 1.9 80.4 1,768.9 71.4 1,516.8 507.3 103.8 131.3 171.8 15.0 80.7 9.9 146.7 86.5 4.8 949.4   117,890.2 0 0.10 1.6 0.25 3.3 0 1.9 0 7.1 2.2 0.017 4.0 3.9 0 0.011 0   0.43 4.7 0 0.0001 0 40 0 401 0.0004 10 0 122 0 4.8 0 0.83 0.81 0 4.3   614 0 0 0 0 0.45 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.13 1.4 0 0   0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.0034 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0   2.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0   0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0   0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0   0 0 1.8 0 0 0 0 0 0.021 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0   1.8 0 0 0 0 0.33 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0   0 0 0 0 0.077 0 0 0 0 0 0.12 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0   0.53 1.3 1.4 0.0090 0 38 0 0 3.0 0 0 0 1.4 0 0 0.0010 0   0 0.56 2.1 0 0.46 1.9 0 74 3.5 0 1.4 4.3 0 0 9.9 0.0040 0.012 0 0.43   143 12 299 369 348 0.86 4.7 7.2 0 256 0 57 18 110,278 0 2.2 122   7.1 354 0 1.9 0 818 71 793 0 93 0 46 15 76 0 146 86 4.8 0   114,285 Acrylic acid and aqueous salt  solutions thereof n-Butyl acrylate Acrylonitrile Acetaldehyde Acetonitrile 2-Azobisisobutyronitrile 2-Aminoethanol Antimony and its compounds Isobutyraldehyde Ethylbenzene -Caprolactam Xylene Vinyl chloride Cobalt and its compounds Vinyl acetate Inorganic cyanide compounds (not including complex salts and cyanate) Cyclohexylamine Dichloromethane N,N-dimethylacetamide N,N-dimenthylformamide Organic tin compounds Styrene Terephthalic acid Toluene Lead compounds Phenol Bis- (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate n-Hexane Benzaldehyde Formaldehyde Manganese and its compounds Methacrylate Methyl methacrylate Methylnaphthalene Methylenebis (4,1-phenylene) = diisocyanate                      Chemical Substances P17 Verified 13  Undergoing correction Correction completed Number  of cases Headquarters environmental auditing (12 business sites) Auditing by certification body Renewal (12 business sites) Surveillance (34 business sites) Internal auditing of  business sites (44 business sites;  46 audits) Issues of concern Issues to work on Proposals Total Nonconformity (major) Nonconformity (minor) Observations Total Nonconformity (major) Nonconformity (minor) Observations Total Nonconformity (major) Nonconformity (minor) Observations Total 13 35 3 51 0 1 28 29 0 5 72 77 2 32 105 139 41 76 8 125 1 0 43 44 0 5 68 73 0 82 248 330 54 111 11 176 1 1 71 73 0 10 140 150 2 114 353 469 Categories of instructions for Headquarters environmental auditing: Issues of concern: Matters recommended for swift improvement Issues to work on: Matters recommended for planned improvement Proposals: Matters to be considered for improvement, advice 685 256 941 415 188 603 1 1 9 51 94 42 1 5 39 1 81 63 31 94 15 10 25 0 0 0 4 5 0 0 1 0 0 26 Aggregate total Those who acquired qualifications during fiscal 2011 Number of internal training course participants Number of external training course participants Total Number of internal training course participants Number of external training course participants Total Certified Environmental Measurer Energy Managers Olfactory Measurement Operators Environmental Specialists (Eco Test) Registered examiner of the Center of Environmental Auditor Registration (CEAR) Pollution  control  manager Lead Auditor Auditor Provisional Auditor Air Classes 1-4 Water Classes 1-4 Noise/Vibration Dioxins Qualifications Qualifications Number of participants in Environmental Management Systems (EMS) internal auditor development/ training courses Number of participants in Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems (OHSMS) internal auditor development/  training courses Number of persons  with major  qualifications Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Headquarters Number of Issues of Concern in  Environmental Auditing for Fiscal 2011 (for Production sites and Laboratories, as of End of March 2012) (Issues) Numbers of Persons with Qualifications (persons) ISO 14001 Certified Business Sites Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Site2 Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kanto Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chubu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kinki Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Minakuchi Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. [Hokkaido Sekisui Fami S Co., Ltd.] Gunma Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Ibaraki Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. [Ibaraki Sekisui Fami S Co., Ltd.] Tochigi Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd.  General Affairs Department Sekisui Heim Shinetsu Co., Ltd. [Sekisui Fami S Shinetsu Co., Ltd.] Tokyo Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. [not including Yamanashi Sales Branch] Tokyo Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd.  Yamanashi Sales Branch [Tokyo Sekisui Fami S Co., Ltd.  Yamanashi Sales Branch] Sekisui Heim Chubu Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Sanyo Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Chushikoku Co., Ltd. [Sekisui Fami S Chushikoku Co., Ltd.] Sekisui Heim Kyushu Co., Ltd. [Sekisui Fami S Kyushu Co., Ltd.] Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Kyoto R & D Laboratories Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Ota Plant Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. [Sekisui Roof Systems Co., Ltd.  Manufacturing Division] Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Ryuseki Jyubi Co., Ltd. Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd. Nippon No-Dig Technology Co., Ltd. Kydex, LLC. Allen Extruders, LLC. Eslon B.V. Sekisui SPR Europe G.m.b.H.  Sekisui NordiTube Technologies SE, Schieder Plant Sekisui NordiTube Technologies SE, Liege Plant Sekisui Rib Loc Australia Pty. Ltd. Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Wuxi SSS-Diamond Plastics Co., Ltd. Yongchang-Sekisui Composites Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Amagasaki Plant [Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Amagasaki Plant] Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant [Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. Shiga Plant] Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Minase Site Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Nara Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Mie Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Nagoya Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Shinshu-Takato Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Kyushu-Izumi Plant Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu Plant Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Plant Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba Plant Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. ADME & Tox. Research Institute1 Sekisui Techno Shoji Higashi Nihon Co., Ltd. Sekisui TA Industries, LLC.  Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Film Plant Sekisui Alveo B.V. Sekisui Alveo Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Pasadena Plant Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Calvert City Plant  Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. Sekisui S-Lec Thailand Co., Ltd. Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Daejeon Plant YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Cheongwon Plant Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Development Center2 Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Tosu Plant Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Kanto Plant Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Chiba Plant Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Kanto Plant Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Hyogo Plant Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Hyogo-Takino Plant Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Izumo Plant Changzhou Zhongji Precision Molding Plastic Co., Ltd. [ ]: Organizations in parentheses are included in the  scope of certification. Some sites not shown above  may include related sections that have attained ISO  14001 certification. 1  Eco Action 21; others ISO 14001 2  The Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Site and  Development Center share a single certification. Environmental Management P12 Verified Verified 14  0 400 200 2008 2009 (100 million yen) 213.2 124.2   2010 275.8 External loss costs Internal loss costs Production costs Environmental costs Safety loss costs    External loss costs Internal loss costs Production costs Safety loss costs Environmental costs : Costs of responding to product-related complaints and claims : Costs associated with disposal of defective products generated  during manufacturing processes : Costs necessary for manufacturing, such as raw-material and  labor costs (decreased through productivity improvements  such as saving of energy and other resources in manufacturing  processes) : Costs arising from equipment-related or labor accidents etc. : Costs for disposal of wastes generated at business sites, and  energy costs  Fields of Manufacturing Development Needs Customers Analysis Utilization Interviews Collection Categorization Receiving complaints Resolving dissatisfactions Investigation Response Reflecting Reflecting Senior executives and related sections Product planning Development and design Production and construction Surveys Other Factor analysis Preventative Measures Customers feedback Customers feedback Opinions and wishes Complaints Hayamimi Network Contact point Flow of  Utilizing Customer Feedback in Management Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Headquarters Business sites acquiring ISO 9000-series Certification Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Housing Company  (integrated certification) Research & Development Department CS Promotion & Quality Assurance Department Technology Department, Production and Construction Technology Department, Purchasing Sekisui Global Trading Co., Ltd. Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kanto Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chubu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kinki Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Hoppou Jyubunka Institute Co., Ltd. Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Minakuchi Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Roof Systems Co., Ltd. Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Mechanical Plant Division, Civil Engineering & Water Treatment Division Shizuoka Plant Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Headquarters, Ota Plant Nippon No-Dig Technology Co., Ltd. Wuxi SSS-Diamond Plastics Co., Ltd. Eslon B.V. Sekisui NordiTube Technologies SE KMG Pipe Technologies G.m.b.H. KMG LinerTec G.m.b.H. KMG Pipe Rehabilitation Emirates, LLC. Sekisui Rib Loc Australia Pty. Ltd. Kydex, LLC. Allen Extruders, LLC. Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd. Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Yongchang-Sekisui Composites Co., Ltd. (Xinjiang) Sekisui Refresh Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Amagasaki Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. (comprehensive certification) Shiga Plant Hamamatsu Plant Osaka Office Tokyo Office Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Nara Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Aichi Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Mie Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Nagoya Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Shinshu-Takato Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Kyushu-Izumi Plant Sekisui Polymatech Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de CV. Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Sekisui S-Lec Thailand Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. Sekisui-Alveo A.G. (six sites: G.m.b.H., A.G., S.a.r.L, SpA, S.A., [Benelux] BV) Sekisui Alveo Ltd. Sekisui Alveo B.V. Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Lawrence Plant Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Coldwater Plant Sekisui Pilon Pty. Ltd. YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. YoungBo HPP (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC. (Framingham, San Diego, Stamford) Sekisui Diagnostics P.E.I. Inc. Sekisui Diagnostics (UK) Limited Sekisui Virotech G.m.b.H. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. (Calvert City, Pasadena, Dallas HQ) Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. Tarragona Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. (comprehensive certification) Chiba Plant Kanto Plant Hyogo Plant Hyogo-Takino Plant Izumo Plant  Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Engineering Co., Ltd. Sekisui Insurance Service Co., Ltd. CS & Quality P19 - 24 15  Number of employees 20,855 By region Japan 15,747  North America, Central and South America 1,483 Europe 1,512   Asia/Pacific (including China) 2,113 Number of employees 2,154  Male 1,914  Female 240 Average years of continuous service 18.4 Male 18.7 Female 16.3  Percentage of Women Among New-graduate Hires 0 20 10 30 40 2009 (Entering FY 2010) (%) 21 2010 (Entering FY 2011) 25 2011 (Entering FY 2012) 27 (%) Percentage of Challenged Persons Employed (Sekisui Chemical) 0 1.2 0.6 1.8 2.4 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2009 2.06 1.97 2.17 2.17 2.40 2.18 Legally stipulated rate 2010 2.12 2011 2.03 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Number of new graduates  hired (persons) 59 30 58 Separation rate within the  first 3 years (%) 6.8 3.3 3.4 Training Details Number of par- ticipants in fiscal  2011 (persons) Recruitment- type Training The Saijuku  School This program combines intensive courses led  by visiting university professors with practical  themes so that participants can improve their  skills and knowledge to become globally  oriented leaders. 37 Sending  Employees  to Business  Schools Outside  the Company Under this program, employees take courses  for training business professionals at business  schools outside of the company. The aim is to  work together with human resources outside  the company and to polish up business skills. 12 (gross total) Selective- type Training Open Seminars These intra-group seminars aim to improve  employees business skills. Employees can  select freely seminars on skills that meet their  needs, to acquire skills that can be applied  immediately to their daily work. 144 (gross total) Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Cumulative total  since 2000 Recruitments  (cases) 22 13 207 Employees recruited  (persons) 44 18 440 Applicants  (persons) 58 72 1,026 Employees  transferred (persons) 19 13 225 30s 40s 50s Total  Number of  Participants Themes by Age  Groups Self- establishment Market value Continuing to  work even after  retirement - Training Contents Re co gnition  of abilities and  interviews with  superiors on  career-related  matters Affirmation of  specialization,  values, and the  m e a n i n g  o f  work A i m i n g  t o  keep working  at age 65 and  thinking about  succession - Number of  Participants in  Fiscal 2010 (persons) 76 139 69 284 Total Number of  Participants as of  Fiscal 2011 (persons) 1,685 1,514 802 4,001 System Main content Fiscal  2009 Fiscal  2010 Fiscal  2011 During  childcare leave Childcare  leave Leave which previously extended  only until the child was a year and  a half old now extends to the end  of the month of the childs third  birthday. 42 30 (including  11 males) 22 (including  8 males) After returning  to work Shortened  working  hours Payment period that previously  extended until the child was three  years old now extends until the  child starts fourth grade. 18 17 21 (including  1 male) Other support Family leave Three days of special paid leave  per year granted until the child or  grandchild starts high school (this  leave can be taken for reasons  such as childbirth-related events,  parents day, athletic meets, and  PTA meetings) 130 96 98 Total number of persons using these systems 190 143 141 Programs available Summary Annual career  training Career planning and interviews with superiors on career- related matters, both held at the end of each fiscal year (third  year: interviews with HR career advisors) Business skills  training Learning from a choice of business English, administrative  technologies, accounting, logical thinking, communication,  etc. Training for  superiors Checking up on the basics of development of subordinates  and on career interview methods (persons) Human Resources Verified Results of Intra-group Job Posting Number of New Graduates Hired and Their Separation Rate in the  First Three Years of Employment (Sekisui Chemical) Main Recruitment and Selective-type Training Programs Number of Employees (Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd.) Number of Employees (Sekisui Chemical Group) Employees Years of Continuous Service (Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd.) Note: Separation rate within the first 3 years: Calculated as the total of separation rates for  the first, second, and third years for employees hired in the relevant fiscal year, in accor- dance with the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfares calculation methods (Years) (persons) Usage of Main Systems Raising Next Generation  (Sekisui Chemical) Overview of 3-Year Development Program for Young Employees Career Plan Training by Age P30 P32 16        1 Data above include 46 production sites/4 laboratories + all departments of Headquarters + back offices of division companies.  1) Costs within business-site areas Health and safety measures, rescue and protective equipment, measurement of work environment, health management, workers accident compensation insurance, etc. 799 1,680 2) Administrative costs Establishment and implementation of OHSMS, safety education, personnel costs, etc. 1,426 - 3) Other Safety awards etc. 3 - Total 2,228 1,680 0 5 10 15 25 20 0 2 4 6 10 8 2008 2007 2006 2009 Investment and expense amounts (100 million yen) Rate (%) 11.9 7.0 19.8 9.8 5.7 20.7 9.2 6.0 20.8 9.8 4.1 22.0   0 100 200 400 300 2007 2008 2009 250 371 274 (million yen) 2 Loss costs: Expenses, including man-hours, required to respond to occupational accidents,  equipment accidents, commuting accidents, and long-term illness absences 0 1 2 3 2007 2008 2009 (Cases) (Cases) (Cases) 1 0 0 0 30 20 10 40 60 50 2007 2008 2009 43 45 47 2010 61   0 60 40 20 80 100 2007 2008 2009 87 92 95       3 Equipment-related accident:  Any accident that meets one or more of the following conditions  (1) – (3) (Sekisui Chemical Group standards):  (1) Personnel-related damage: business interruption with 30 lost    working days or more  (2) Property damage: 10 million yen or more  (3) Loss of opportunity: 20 million yen or more 4 Extended sick leave:  This refers to a new absence of 30 calendar days or longer due  to illness or injury. Reoccurrences within six months of returning  to work are not included in the above count. Absences due to  occupational injury are not considered extended sick leave. (Million yen) 2010 12.0 6.5 22.5 Investment amount Expense amount Proportion of health, safety and accident- prevention investments to the total investment amount 2010 326   2010 0   2010 86   5 Number of Cases:  Total number of cases with damages incurred and inflicted  (including self-injury and property damage)      0 100 200 300 2009 (Persons) 149 2010 220   Safety P33 Verified 17  The number of accidents represents the total for the following four companies: Sekisui Hometechno Co., Ltd., Nippon No-Dig Technology Co., Ltd., Sekisui Aqua Tec Co., Ltd., and Kyushu  Sekisui Kenzai Co., Ltd. 0 10 20 30 2007 2008 2009 (Accidents) (Accidents) (Accidents) 5 15 20 2 12 14 8 8 16 10 13 23 12 9 21 8 11 19 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2008 2007 2009 0.77 0.56 1.09 1.12 0.33 0.99 0 20 40 60 80 Europe U.S./Mexico Asia/Australia China 2010 2009 2008 2011 33 31 8 3 58 66 15 13 0 10 20 30 2007 2008 2009 5 1 6 3 3 6 3 3 6 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 2008 2007 2009 0.021 0.10 0.10 0.184 0.08 0.016         1 Frequency rate = (deaths and injuries in occupational accidents/work-hours in the aggregate)       1,000,000 2 Severity rate = (number of workdays lost/work-hours in the aggregate)  1,000 3 Sekisui Chemical Group data: 46 production sites and four R&D laboratories 4 Source of information for Japanese manufacturing industry: Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare  Survey on Industrial Accidents 2010  0.48 0.98 Average of domestic manufacturing industry Sekisui Chemical Group 2010 0.09 0.020    Average of domestic manufacturing industry Sekisui Chemical Group 2010 7 9 16 5 8 13 2010 Work not shut down Work shut down 4 1 5 45  27 2 6                 Number of non-loss time accidents in the New Construction sector Number of non-loss time accidents in the Fami S sector Number of loss time accidents in the New Construction sector Number of loss time accidents in the Fami S sector Compliance P55 Training Trainees Number of Trainees Periodic training Training for new managers New Sekisui Chemical Group managers 197 Training for new employees New Sekisui Chemical employees 53 Area-specific training Basic compliance training Group companies Approx. 670 Anti-monopoly Law training Sekisui Chemical Group sales depertments 31 Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc.  to Subcontractors training Sekisui Chemical Group managers, manufacturing  depertments 64 Consumer/Product Liability Law training Group companies 46 Harassment-prevention training Group companies 44 Basic contract training Group companies 44 Rank-based training Compliance training for leaders in manufacturing sections Sekisui Chemical Group manufacturing depertments 43 Global training Training on overseas bribery regulations Sekisui Chemical Group managerial sections, business  depertments 65 Basic training for Global Talents Personnel engaged in international business 14 Training prior to overseas assignment Personnel scheduled for overseas assignment 3 Verified Major Training Programs Implemented in Fiscal 2011 18  Activity Site Program Sekisui Nature Study  Course Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Izumo Plant Site nature-conservation activities with close connections to the community Joint activity site by Kansai-area sites Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Business site activities Joint activity by Kansai-area sites Kyoto Prefecture Sen Forest preservation activities Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Izumo Plant Lake Shinji cleanup, Izumo Plant Childrens Nature Study Course Kanto Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kanto Sekisui Childrens Nature Study Course Tokyo Headquarters Biodiversity-preservation volunteer activities Chubu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chubu Sekisui Heim Industry Nature Study Course Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Tokyo Sekisui Childrens Nature Study Course Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Development of Sekisui Forest Gunma Plant Gunma Childrens Nature Study Course Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Group Childrens Nature Study Course Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Kyushu Sekisui biotope autumn-leaf tour Tokyo Headquarters Tree-planting activities at Umi-no-Mori (Sea Forest) in Tokyo Tokyo Plant Tokyo Plant Childrens Nature Study Course Kyoto Site Katsuragawa nature tour Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. Forest-preservation activities at Wakayama Prefecture Sekisui Chemical Forest Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. Shikoku Sekisui Nature Study Course Disaster relief 39% Local communities  and social welfare 8% Academia, research,  and education 37% Environment 8% International exchange and cooperation 5% Contributions: 228 million yen Others 3% Charitable Contributions Recipients of Fiscal 2011 Sekisui Chemical Grants for Research on Manufacturing Based on Innvations Inspired by Nature Examples of Main Nature Conservation Activities Conducted in Fiscal 2011 Nature Conservation and Social Contribution P59 - 62 Researcher Affiliation/University, Title Supported Research Theme Professor  Kazuo Akagi Graduate School of Engineering, Kyoto University Development of Morphology-Retaining Carbonization method and creation of Nano- Structure Controlled helical graphite learning from flower charcoal Professor  Masatsugu Shimomura Advanced Institute for Materials Research, Tohoku University Production of friction-control surfaces through biomimetic design and self-organization Professor  Shuichi Hiraoka Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The University of  Tokyo  Building artificial precision supramolecules using Van der Waals force Professor  Seiichi Taguchi Graduate School of Engineering, Hokkaido University Generation of high-performance biomass polymers with advanced chiral control  learning from the microbial polyester synthesis mechanism Associate Professor  Chojiro Kojima Institute for Protein Research, Osaka University Molecular structures for promoting flowering, learning from plants Professor  Masami Ishibashi Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Chiba  University Signal-transmission mechanisms learning from plant components: seeking a natural  substance to control wnt signaling Associate Professor  Mitsuhiro Ueda Graduate School of Life and Environmental Sciences, Osaka  Prefecture University Efficient decomposition of plant biomass under cold-temperature conditions, learning  from earthworms, and its applications Professor  Kingo Uchida Faculty of Science and Technology, Ryukoku University Producing a new light-reactive functional film by learning from the microscopic  stereostructure of biosurfaces Naoe Hosoda Group Leader, Interconnection Design Group, Hybrid  Materials Unit, Environment and Energy Materials Division, National Institute for Materials Science Development of an underwater adhesive through insect mimetics Verified Note: University affiliations shown are current as of the time grant was provided. 19  President President President Promotion of policies and  measures discussed in the  Subcommittee and other  matters Board of Directors President President Safety System Production sites Construction companies Sections in charge of safety Sections in charge of safety Safety sections at each division company Division companies Headquarters Total Manufacturing Management Center, Safety Group Customer Information & Consulting Services CSR Committee/Subcommittee Structure CS & Quality Management System Environmental Management System Reporting/Discussion CSR Committee Environmental  Subcommittee CS & Quality Subcommittee Human Resources Subcommittee Safety Subcommittee Compliance  Subcommittee Production sites Sales companies After-sales service sections Quality management sections Technology Department Customer Information &  Consulting Services Customer Information &  Consulting Services CS & Quality sections at each division company Division companies Headquarters CS & Quality Subcommittee CS Group, CSR Department Total Manufacturing Management Center, Quality Management Group Production sites Sales companies Environmental sections Environmental sections Environmental sections at each division company Division companies Headquarters CSR Committee Environmental Management Group, CSR Department Chairperson: President Members: Division Company Presidents,  Headquarters Directors, and  Employee Representatives (three  Employee Representatives: the  chairperson of the Labor Union, a  Representative of Female  Employees, and a representative of  employees of aliate companies) Environment officers meeting Safe environment managers meeting Environment  brainstorming sessions Energy management officers meeting CSR Committee CSR Committee Subcommittee Chairperson: Head of CSR Department Subcommittee Members: Directors in charge of CS & Quality at each division  company; General Managers of CS & Quality sections;  Head of Productivity Innovation Center Safety Subcommittee Subcommittee Chairperson: Head of R&D Center Subcommittee Members: Directors in charge of Safety at each division  company; General Managers of Safety sections;  Head of Productivity Innovation Center Subcommittee Chairperson: Head of CSR Department Subcommittee Members: Directors in charge of environmental matters at each  division company; General Managers of environmental  sections; Head of R&D Center HR System Compliance Management System HR sections at each division company Division Company/Corporate Each  labor-management committee CSR Committee HR Subcommittee Reporting Reporting Reporting CSR Committee Compliance Advisory Board Instruction and communication Compliance Subcommittee Subcommittee Chairperson: Head of CSR Department Subcommittee Members: Directors in charge of HR at each  division company;  Head of R&D Center Subcommittee Chairperson: Head of CSR Department  Subcommittee Members:  Directors in charge of compliance at each  division company; Headquarters Directors;  General Manager, Corporate Audit  Department HR sections at production sites,  laboratories, sales facilities,  affiliates, etc. Discussion of Sekisui Chemical Groups basic policies on  compliance and formulation of measures to be  implemented in areas such as education and training Development of  countermeasures for individual  compliance issues,  consideration of measures to  prevent their reoccurrence, etc. Headquarters /Division companies  (to address  problems that have  actually occurred) Compliance Promotion Committee Compliance  Promotion Manager  (person responsible  for promotion) Promotion and  development  of measures Sekisui Chemical Groups CSR Management System 20  Sekisui Chemical Group Environmental Management Policy Mission Basic Policy                 Sekisui Chemical Group CS & Quality Management Policy Mission Basic Policy       1. Ensuring Basic Qualities      2. Creating Attractive Qualities   3. Upgrading Technological Capabilities   4. Enhancing Communications    5. Providing Thorough Employee Education   Sekisui Chemical Groups CSR Management Policies 21  Sekisui Chemical Group Safety Policy Mission Basic Policy               Sekisui Chemical Group Social Contribution Policy     Sekisui Chemical Group Human Resources and Human Rights Policy Mission Basic Policy on Human Resources      1. Creating opportunities to take on challenges            2. Culture where employees learn and grow on their own   3. Enhancement of the performance-based remuneration system                    4. Acceptance of various working styles             5. Creating safe and secure work environments  Basic Policy on Human Rights 1. Respect for human rights and the prohibition of discrimination            2. Prohibition of harassment                   3. Prohibition of forced labor and child labor                   4. Respect for basic labor rights               22  4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Building) URL http://www.sekisui.co.jp For further information contact: CSR Planning Group, CSR Department 2-3-17 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8450, Japan (Toranomon 2-chome Tower) Email: csr@sekisui.com This report has been printed and bound with consideration for the  environment in the following ways: (1) This report uses Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified paper produced  from carefully managed forests. (2) The computer-to-plate (CTP) method of direct printing, which uses no film  that later must be disposed of as waste, has been adopted in the  plate-making process. (3) Vegetable-oil ink, which generates few volatile organic compounds (VOC)  and has excellent biodegradability and de-inking performance, is used in  the printing process. In addition, waterless printing, which generates no  hazardous waste fluids, has been used as well. (4) Glue that does not hinder the recyclability of paper is used in the binding  process. Published: June 27, 2012. Published annually. Previous edition published: June 29, 2011. Next edition planned for publication: June 2013