Who we are and how we work Code of conduct  The AkzoNobel business principles make  good business sense. They help us to  remain successful as a company, today  and in the future, as they help us to main- tain our license to operate in the balance  between people, profit and planet. The AkzoNobel business principles were  introduced five years ago, and overall they have  been a resounding success. We have trained  employees worldwide; but, of course, this is  not a one-time exercise. We continue to think  and act according to the business principles on  a daily basis. In order to help us maintain an  ongoing focus on them, I am pleased to present  to you the AkzoNobel code of conduct. This code is intended to provide you with a clear  overview of the obligations that each employee  in the company needs to understand. In essence,  it captures not only the general business  principles, but also our key and relevant company  directives. It thereby assists all of us in performing  our jobs in accordance with the companys  standards. As an employee, you have a personal respon- sibility to be aware of the code of conduct and  to comply with it. You need to know, therefore,  that should you not live up to its requirements,  AkzoNobel will consider disciplinary action,  including possible dismissal in cases of gross  negligence. Since we completed the business  principles rollout, we assume that you are  already acting in accordance with them. If not,  or if you are facing a situation that gives you  any doubt as to how to act regarding this code  of conduct, please contact your manager. Your  manager will also be able to help you answer  any questions about interpreting or applying  this code.  Furthermore, you should bring to the attention of  management any activity which is in violation of  company policy or law. To this end, AkzoNobel  has established a complaints procedure which  can help you to determine the best way to raise  your concerns. We are committed to providing  the utmost protection to employees who report  a breach or suspected breach of the code.  For absolute clarity: we also stress that senior  management will not hold management or  employees accountable for any loss of business  resulting from compliance with the code. I trust  that you will support, and comply with, our  code of conduct. Our code of conduct is a reflection of who we  are and how we work. I am therefore counting  on each employee to fully embrace its content.  In doing so, we can ensure that we continue to  build a company we can all be proud of. Hans Wijers CEO AkzoNobel Letter from the CEO This manual contains AkzoNobels code of conduct.  In 2008, AkzoNobel redefined its comapny values.  These values are:  Focusing on   our customers   future first Embracing  entrepreneurial  thinking Developing   the talents of   our people  Courage   and curiosity   to question Integrity and  responsibility in   our actions  02  Letter from the CEO 04  Introduction 05  Our company   Business principles   The environment   Community support 07  Business integrity   Complying with laws   Communication and information   Free enterprise and fair competition   Fraud, deception or irregular conduct   Presence in high risk countries   Child labor   Forced labor 10  Company responsibilities   Open communication   Equal opportunities   Healthy work environment   Right to organize   Collective bargaining   Participation in political life   Protection of personal data   Performance & Development Dialog 12  Employee responsibilities   Media relations and disclosures   Inside information   Corporate identity   Protecting AkzoNobels intellectual property   Internet use / IT code of conduct   Business travel   Substance abuse Contents This code of conduct is not a contract of employment and does not change the nature of your employment (in the US: At will).  AkzoNobel code of conduct   August 2008  4 As an employee of AkzoNobel, you are expected to act  in accordance with our company values and business  principles and to comply with company policies, laws and  regulations. The company values and business principles  are an expression of who we are and how we want to be  perceived by our stakeholders. Laid down in company  directives, policies and guidelines, they are intended to be  put into practice by all employees on a daily basis. Introduction This code of conduct contains an overview of key in- formation, including the business principles and direc- tives, which are relevant to all employees. The code is  a statement of who we are and how we work. When- ever we encounter difficult ethical or legal issues, we  need to resolve them in line with our code of conduct.  This code is a living document, and will therefore be  updated when so required. As an employee, you will  always be notified when an update is made. The key sections of this document cover:   Our company   Business integrity   Company responsibilities   Employee responsibilities Furthermore, you should bring to the attention of management  any activity which is in violation of company policy or law.  To this end, AkzoNobel has established a complaints  procedure, which can help you to determine the best way  to voice your concerns. We are committed to providing full protection to employees  who report a breach or suspected breach of the code. For  absolute clarity, we stress that senior management will  not hold employees accountable for any loss of business  resulting from compliance with this code. Please be aware that in the event of a failure to comply with,  or in case of any willful breach of, our business principles  and code of conduct, the company will consider disciplinary  action, up to and including termination of employment. Now  that the business principles rollout has been completed, we  assume all our employees are already acting in accordance  with them. If you have any questions about how to interpret or apply the  code, or any other company policies or directives, please  consult your manager.  AkzoNobel code of conduct   August 2008  5 Business principles As described in the company statement, it is AkzoNobels  ambition to be the first choice of customers, shareholders  and employees, and to be a respected member of society.  In the spirit of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enter- prises, this document sets out the values that should guide  the conduct of all AkzoNobel companies in order to fulfill  these ambitions. In this respect, AkzoNobels business prin- ciples apply equally to our business transactions throughout  the world and to the individual behavior of employees in con- ducting AkzoNobels business. The business principles also  bring together the main AkzoNobel responsibilities for other  specific policy areas. The business principles leave Business Unit Management  and Country Management free to specify further local rules  of business conduct, provided such rules are consistent with  our values and with safeguarding AkzoNobels good reputa- tion worldwide. It is the responsibility of the Board of Management and each  Business Unit Manager to ensure that AkzoNobels business  principles are communicated to and observed by AkzoNo- bel employees. In addition, AkzoNobel regards the appli- cation of its business principles to be of prime importance  in making decisions about whether or not to enter into or  continue relationships with contractors and suppliers, and  to participate in joint ventures. Our values Our values are embodied in Tomorrows Answers Today.  We believe in: Focusing on our customers future first Embracing entrepreneurial thinking Developing the talents of our people  Courage and curiosity to question Integrity and responsibility in our actions Responsibilities AkzoNobel is committed to creating long-term value for   customers, shareholders, employees, and society, recognizing  that sustainable profit is essential for the continuity of its  business. We will focus our efforts on the success of our customers. In  this respect, it is our responsibility to provide customers with  products and services that offer value in terms of price and  quality, and that meet high health, safety, and environmental  standards. We will provide competitive returns on our shareholders   investments. In this respect, it is our responsibility to take  due account of the expectations of our investors. We will create an attractive working environment for our   employees. In this respect, it is our responsibility to recruit,  hire and promote employees solely on the basis of their suit- ability for the job; to stimulate their individual and professional  development; and to provide safe and healthy working  conditions. It is also our responsibility to prohibit harassment  or discrimination of any kind, and to avoid at all costs any  exploitation of child labor. We will conduct our activities in a socially responsible manner.  In this respect, we observe the laws of the countries in which  we operate; support fundamental human rights in line with  the legitimate role of business; and give proper regard to  health, safety, and the environment, consistent with our  commitment to contribute to sustainable development. Our company  AkzoNobel code of conduct   August 2008  6 Free enterprise AkzoNobel supports the principles of free enterprise and fair  competition. The company aims to meet customers needs  faster, better, and more distinctively than our competitors. To  this end, AkzoNobel will compete vigorously but fairly, and  within the framework of applicable competition laws. Business integrity AkzoNobel insists on integrity and fairness in all aspects of  its business operations.   Bribery and any other forms of unethical business practice  are prohibited.   AkzoNobel employees are expected to avoid all situations  in which their personal or financial interests may conflict  with the companys interest. All business transactions shall be accurately and completely  recorded in accordance with the companys accounting  principles, and local laws and may be subject to audit. Community activities AkzoNobel companies are encouraged to support community  activities.   AkzoNobel companies are to give their employees the  opportunity to play an active role in society – for example,  through community or educational programs – unless  participation in these activities creates a conflict of interest.   AkzoNobel companies are not to make payments to political  parties, or their institutions, agencies, or representatives. Communication AkzoNobel recognizes that, in view of the companys scope  of activities, the impact they have on stakeholders, and  the public role the company fulfills, proper communication  is essential. Subject to any overriding considerations of  confidentiality, AkzoNobel companies endeavor to commu- nicate with others in an open, factual, and timely manner. Compliance The Board of Management will not hold management ac- countable for any loss of business resulting from compliance  with AkzoNobels business principles, and will see to it  that no employee suffers as a consequence of reporting a  breach, or suspected breach, of these principles. The environment AkzoNobel protects the environment by preventing or  minimizing the environmental impact of its activities and  products through appropriate design, manufacturing, distri- bution and disposal practices. AkzoNobel expects all employees to play a role in protecting  the environment. If an employee becomes aware of any  violation of environmental law, or any action that may appear  to conceal such a violation, the employee should immediately  report the matter to his or her manager — or, if required, to  AkzoNobels General Counsel via the complaints procedure. AkzoNobel seeks to extend its concern for health, safety  and the environment to its suppliers and customers through  a product stewardship management system. Community support AkzoNobel supports activities in the communities in which  its employees live and work. The AkzoNobel Community  Program provides the means to support such programs,  provided employees are personally involved. Employees are  therefore encouraged to actively participate, and to propose  projects to site management or site committees.    AkzoNobel code of conduct   August 2008  7 Complying with laws AkzoNobels policy is to comply with all laws and regulations  that apply to its business. When conducting AkzoNobels  business, employees may encounter a variety of legal  issues, particularly in the areas described below. If there are  questions on specific laws or regulations, contact AkzoNobel  Legal & IP. Communication and  information AkzoNobel recognizes that in view of the scope of its  activities, the impact they have on stakeholders, and the  public role the company fulfills, proper communication  is essential. Subject to any overriding considerations of  confidentiality, AkzoNobel companies endeavor to commu- nicate with others in an open, factual, and timely manner. Free enterprise and   fair competition AkzoNobel supports the principles of free enterprise and fair  competition. The company aims to meet customers needs  faster, better, and more distinctively than our competitors.  To this end, AkzoNobel will compete vigorously but fairly,  and within the framework of applicable competition laws.  AkzoNobel insists on integrity and fairness in all aspects of  its business operations. Bribery and any other forms of unethical business practice  are prohibited. AkzoNobel employees are expected to avoid all situations in  which their personal or financial interests may conflict with  the companys interest. All business transactions shall be accurately and completely  recorded in accordance with the companys accounting  principles, and local laws and may be subject to audit. Competition law compliance AkzoNobel will compete for business. AkzoNobel expects  its employees to compete lawfully and ethically as well.  AkzoNobel operates a strict policy to ensure that its  operations around the world are in full compliance with all  applicable competition laws and the AkzoNobel competition  law compliance policy. Dealing with suppliers AkzoNobel wants to do business with business partners  who endorse our values and our social and environmental  standards as formulated in our business principles.  AkzoNobel regards the application of its business principles  as being of prime importance in deciding whether to enter into  or to continue relationships with suppliers and contractors. Business integrity  AkzoNobel code of conduct   August 2008  8 Payments Bribery Bribery and any other forms of unethical business practice  are prohibited. Under no circumstance shall any AkzoNobel  officer, employee, agent or representative make, offer,  promise or authorize any payment or gift:   To gain any business advantage;   To influence the policy of any government, or;   That could bear the appearance of impropriety. Please understand that an offer alone, without actual  payment, still violates AkzoNobels policy and the law. Commission payments The rule prohibiting bribes of any form may not be  circumvented by commission payments. Any commission  payment should be justified by a clear and traceable service  rendered to AkzoNobel. The remuneration of agents,  distributors and commissioners cannot exceed normal  business rates and practices. Government officials shall  not be appointed by AkzoNobel as agents, distributors or  commissioners. Facilitation payments Facilitation payments are small payments made in money  or in kind (for example AkzoNobel products) to officials, in  accordance with publicly-known or widely-followed local  customs, to expedite performance of routine government  actions (such as processing a required government license).  AkzoNobel promotes measures to eliminate such practices.  More generally, all applicable laws and regulations should be  complied with — in some countries, this completely rules out  the making of facilitation payments. For clarification as to  whether a particular payment constitutes a facilitation pay- ment, and whether the payment is legally allowed, please  consult AkzoNobel Legal & IP. Recording of payments All payments, including facilitation payments, must be recorded  in the appropriate ledgers in accordance with the companys  accounting principles and all applicable local laws. Secret  accounts and/or bookkeeping outside company accounts  are strictly forbidden. No payments will be channeled  through an agent unless they form part of normal agency  fees or reimbursement for incurred costs. Apart from petty  cash transactions, cash payments to third parties are not  permitted; all payments should be made to a bank account  designated in writing. Payments to so-called numbered   accounts are not permitted. A request by a contract partner  to divert a payment to an entity or person offshore shall always  be rejected. All payments will be subject to internal and   external audit. All financial transactions must be recorded in a timely and  accurate manner. In addition, any information pertaining to a  transaction must be recorded. AkzoNobels records should  reflect transactions carried out in conformity with accepted  accounting standards, and should be designed to prevent  off-the-books transactions such as kickbacks and bribes.  Accordingly, company employees must follow all applicable  standards, principles and laws for accounting and financial  reporting. No employee should establish an undisclosed or  unrecorded account on behalf of the company for any pur- pose. In addition, false or artificial entries are not to be made  in the books and records of AkzoNobel for any reason. Money laundering AkzoNobel will not enter into, nor tolerate, any arrangement  which facilitates (or which appears to or is suspected to be  used to facilitate) any acquisition, retention, use, or control  of any property or money intended to disguise the proceeds  of crime. Gifts No personal gifts or favors of any material commercial value  can be made to, or accepted from, a third party. A gift or  favor of material value is defined as an object with such a  value that it may influence a buying decision and/or may lead  to a relation of dependency. In case of any doubt, a superior  has to be consulted. In every unit/department of the company, there must be  full transparency between subordinates and superiors with  respect to business gifts.  AkzoNobel code of conduct   August 2008  9 Fraud, deception or   irregular conduct Anyone who detects or suspects a case of fraud, deception,  or irregular conduct shall immediately inform the superior  of the directly responsible manager. This individual must  contact the Group Auditor of the Internal Auditing Service  (AUD) in order to determine the action required. Definitions:   Fraud – the deliberate misappropriation, falsification, omis- sion, or removal of data, money and/or goods whereby  resources or assets are unlawfully diverted to or from the  company.   Deception or irregular conduct – the deliberate provision  of incorrect, incomplete and/or unclear information, or the  violation of the contract of employment, the corporate di- rectives or other rules in ways not included under fraud,  with the result that financial information and/or decision- making is improperly influenced or affected. Presence in high risk countries AkzoNobel is of the opinion that our activities provide  opportunities to improve the living standards and welfare  of a broad cross-section of the communities in which we  operate. One of our business principles is that we will  support fundamental human rights in line with the legitimate  role of business.   No one other than the Board of Management decides  upon the foundation of a company (new legal entity),  including direct entry into countries where AkzoNobel has  no presence.   AkzoNobel business units must comply with economic  sanctions imposed by the UN. The conditions and time- frame for withdrawal from such a country have to be  decided by the Board of Management. (In exceptional  cases – usually after dialogue with stakeholders – the  Board of Management might decide that our presence in  such a high risk country remains justified for the good of the  population). Business units and service units operating in high risk  countries must consider the issues involved using the self-  assessment tool on IntrANet. The aim of the self-assessment  is to make business units and service units aware of the  human rights impact of their operations. If a negative  impact seems possible or likely, they are encouraged to  take precautions and/or find solutions that are beneficial for  employees and the communities in which they operate. Child labor Child labor refers to a type and intensity of work that hampers  childrens access to education, damages their physical and/ or psychological health and their development within their  families, and deprives them of their childhood or their self- respect. Therefore AkzoNobel employees need to adhere to  the following:   AkzoNobel adheres to the legal minimum age require- ments in all countries in which the company is active.   Moreover, in adhering to the International Labor  Organizations (ILO) Convention 138 on Minimum Age,  and Convention 182 on the Ban of Worst Forms of Child  Labor, AkzoNobel does not employ children under the age  of 16.   If children between age 16 and 18 are employed, the  company ensures that this work does not affect or  preclude schooling.   Business unit management is responsible for making the  AkzoNobel standards with regard to child labor known to  key suppliers and contractors. Forced labor AkzoNobel will under no circumstances make use of forced  labor. AkzoNobel will only employ employees who are  working of their own free will. No employee is required to  lodge deposits, and no individual will be deprived of identity  papers upon commencing employment with the company.  Business unit management is responsible for making the  AkzoNobel standards with regard to forced labor known to  key suppliers and contractors.  AkzoNobel code of conduct   August 2008  10 Open communication Openness, integrity and reliability foster open two-way  communications between the employee and his/her superior  on all aspects of the working environment. In principle, all  employees are encouraged to discuss such matters with  their immediate supervisor or, when communication with  the immediate supervisor is constrained, with the direct  supervisors manager. Where the communication through the employees  hierarchical line is not a viable option, any employee may use  the company complaints procedure to highlight the issue to  senior management. Equal opportunities We are committed to an attractive working environment  for our employees. In this respect, it is our responsibility to  recruit, hire and promote employees solely on the basis of  suitability for the job, to stimulate their individual and profes- sional development, and to provide safe and healthy working  conditions. It is also our responsibility to prohibit harassment  of any kind, as well as the exploitation of child labor. Our employees must be recruited, selected and promoted  on the basis of objective and non-discriminatory criteria. No  harassment or discrimination of any kind will be tolerated  (for example, discrimination based on race, color, sex, or  religion). In the case of disability or chronic illness, including HIV/AIDS,  employees should be able to work for as long as they are  medically fit in available, approriate employment positions,  without facing prejudice or discrimination. Disability and  chronic illness (including HIV/AIDS) is not cause for termina- tion of employment. In all circumstances, employees should  be allowed to retain their employment insofar as they are able  to fulfill the requirements of available and appropriate work. AkzoNobels managers are expected to possess the flexibility  to act with due regard for existing differences in individual  quality, personal ambition, national culture, and organiza- tional interest. They should feel challenged to manage such  differences. Healthy work environment AkzoNobel provides safe and healthy working conditions  in order to prevent harm to, and promote the health of, all  employees and other stakeholders. In order to do so, health  and safety programs, rules and regulations apply at all sites.  It is the responsibility of each employee to comply with health  and safety regulations. AkzoNobel will do what is in its power to prevent any injuries  at work, both for our own employees and for our contractors. Beyond this, the company seeks to adapt work to the  capabilities of all employees in relation to their physical and  mental health. Care and support should be integral to the  response to employees with chronic disability or chronic  illness. All employees should have access to affordable  health services. In areas with a high prevalence of HIV/AIDS,  access to voluntary and anonymous counseling and testing  should be encouraged and supported. Disclosure of medical information There is no justification for asking job applicants or employees   to disclose personal medical information (e.g. pre-employment  HIV testing) beyond the medical data required to ensure suit- ability for the job. All personal medical information is treated  as confidential. Company responsibilities  AkzoNobel code of conduct   August 2008  11 Right to organize AkzoNobel recognizes the freedom of employees to establish  or join an organization of their choice (including trade unions),  and will respect this right. AkzoNobel will not make the  employment of a worker subject to the condition that he/ she must not join a union, or must relinquish trade union  membership. AkzoNobel will not dismiss or otherwise  express workplace prejudice against a worker for the mere  reason of trade union membership. Collective bargaining AkzoNobel respects, within the framework of applicable  laws, regulations, prevailing labor relations and employment  practices, the right to be represented by trade unions and  other employee organizations. AkzoNobel will engage in the  negotiation/consultation process either on its own behalf or  through employers associations whenever applicable. Local  rights and co-determination will be fully respected with a view  to reaching agreement on employment terms and conditions. Participation in political life AkzoNobel encourages its employees to play an active role  in society, including through activities in political parties and  standing for election to public office. AkzoNobel companies are not to make any payments or  donations in kind to political parties or their institutions, agencies  or representatives. AkzoNobel companies will also not facili- tate political donations by employee action committees. Protection of personal data AkzoNobel recognizes the importance of protecting personal  data and has committed itself to a global Privacy code of  conduct. As an employee, you are encouraged to read the  Privacy code of conduct. AkzoNobel shall only process  personal data for specified purposes, and in line with the  provisions of the Privacy code of conduct. Personal data  will include name, home address, social security number,  performance appraisal data (P&D Dialog), etc. Performance &   Development Dialog The Performance & Development Dialog (P&D Dialog) is  AkzoNobels performance appraisal program. It supports  our global business with a common process, terminology,  and tools, and focuses all employees and managers on an  ongoing dialogue on performance and development. The use  of this program is part of our culture, and the responsibility  of all employees.  AkzoNobel code of conduct   August 2008  12 Media relations and  disclosures To ensure a uniform level of information – to our shareholders,  for example – and to protect commercially sensitive information,  financial details released to the media should never exceed  the level of detail provided in AkzoNobels quarterly and annual  reports or official statements issued at the presentation of  these figures. Additional, more specific financial information to be released  by business units and/or national organizations must first  be approved by the appropriate member of the Board of  Management. As regards topics such as financial performance, acquisitions,  divestments, joint ventures and major investments (more than  EUR 10 million), no information should be released to the press  without prior consultation with corporate communications. Contacts with the media about social, environmental, financial  or other issues that may affect the image of the company  should be brought to the attention of, or discussed with,  corporate communications beforehand to avoid conflicting  messages on behalf of the company. Employees need to refrain from statements that might make  third parties capable of insider trading on the stock market. Inside information AkzoNobel employees may become aware of information  about AkzoNobel or other companies that has not been  made public. The use of such non-public or inside information  about AkzoNobel or another company, other than in the   normal performance of ones work, profession or position,  is unethical and may also be a violation of law. In most   jurisdictions, it is unlawful for any person who has material  non-public information about a company to trade the stock  or other securities of such company, including options, puts,  calls, and any derivatives, or to disclose such information to  others who may trade. Violation of such laws may result in  civil and criminal penalties and other sanctions. AkzoNobel  will not tolerate the improper use of inside information,  regardless of whether it is unlawful or not. Inside information may be share price sensitive. Share price  sensitive information is information about a listed companys  results of operations or other affairs that would, if generally  known, be expected to have an impact on such companys  share price. This information is illustrated by, but not limited  to the following examples:   Information on earnings   Merger and acquisition deals   New products with a potentially important corporate/  financial impact   Letters received from government agencies (such as the  FDA) with a potential/qualified impact   Changes in control or management   Changes in auditors or their opinion   Events regarding securities (stock split, etc.)   Bankruptcies   Litigation Employee responsibilities  AkzoNobel code of conduct   August 2008  13 AkzoNobel employees becoming aware of information  which might be price sensitive with respect to AkzoNobels  stock have to make sure that such information is treated  strictly confidentially, and not disclosed to any AkzoNobel  colleagues or to third parties other than on a strict need-to-  know-basis. In the case of disclosure to third parties (e.g.  advisors to AkzoNobel), disclosure is only permitted if such  third parties, by law or contract, are bound by appropriate  non-disclosure and non-use restrictions. In addition, potentially  price sensitive information pertaining to AkzoNobels stock  must be brought promptly to the attention of the AkzoNobel  disclosure committee, which will advise the Board of  Management on the need for public disclosure. Only the  Board of Management will decide on such disclosure. In case  of doubt, seek contact with the Chairman of the disclosure  committee. For practical purposes, it is noted that the same  obligations apply to the securities of a third party with respect  to which AkzoNobel employees have inside information. Any violations or unintended deviations from this directive  must be reported without delay to the Chairman of the  disclosure committee. Corporate identity To ensure a consistent and effective corporate identity  approach worldwide, the rules published in the AkzoNobel  corporate identity manual should be strictly adhered to. It  should also be noted that these rules are different for certain  product groups, companies and business units. Any deviations from the corporate identity rules must be  submitted to the AkzoNobel corporate communications  department for approval before being implemented. Protecting AkzoNobels  intellectual property AkzoNobel has acquired and developed valuable intellectual  property, including patents, trademarks, copyrighted works,  and trade secrets (e.g. confidential technical or business  information). Employees have a responsibility to protect  these assets. Management may choose to protect inventions or creative  expressions through patents, trademark registrations, or  copyright. The transfer of patents, trademarks, or copyrighted  works is subject to management approval and contractual  safeguards. Employees should only disclose confidential information on a  need-to-know basis, and take measures to avoid unauthorized  disclosure, e.g. by securing access to confidential company  records. Disclosing confidential information to third parties  is subject to management approval and a non-disclosure  agreement. Ideas or confidential information from third  parties should not be received or used unless the appropriate  safeguards are in place. AkzoNobel Legal & IP must be involved in any transfer or  dispute related to intellectual property. In any event, no  statement regarding the validity, scope, or enforceability  of intellectual property rights should be made without the  involvement of AkzoNobel Legal & IP.  AkzoNobel code of conduct   August 2008  14 Internet use /   IT code of conduct As a general rule, all IT-related resources and facilities are  provided only for internal use and/or business-related matters,  not for personal use. IT facilities which have been provided  to employees should never be used for personal gain or  profit, should not be misused during work time, and remain  the property of AkzoNobel. Disclosure or dissemination of  confidential or proprietary information regarding AkzoNobel,  its products, or its customers outside the official communi- cation structures is strictly prohibited. IT-related resources and facilities should not be used in any  way that is unethical or illegal, or that could embarrass,  defame, misrepresent, or convey an unjust or unfavorable  impression of AkzoNobel or its business affairs, employees,  suppliers, customers, competitors, or stakeholders. Unau- thorized access to information and information systems is  prohibited; access must be authorized by the owners of the  information and in line with the users job description. Information systems can be secured by personal passwords  and/or additional authentication means like hardware tokens;  users must use these in a responsible way, keeping them  personal and securing them against misuse. Any installation,  change, removal, or personal use of software provided by  AkzoNobel or available on AkzoNobel information systems  must be authorized and managed by the information  management organization or a delegated party. In order to prevent theft, loss, or unauthorized use of  information and systems, a user has to take measures to  ensure the physical security of hardware provided (such  as laptops, phones, tokens or USB sticks). To protect the  availability of company data, users have to secure relevant  business information in a timely manner, by making back-ups  or storing data on network drives. Information security-related incidents, or violation of infor- mation security principles, must be reported to the local IT  helpdesk or information security contact. Possible evidence  should not be tampered with. Every employee of AkzoNobel  is required to be familiar with, and to comply with, the  information security rules and procedures applicable to his  or her specific department and site, as communicated by  the local information security contact. AkzoNobel reserves the right to review the activities performed  by the user using company-provided IT facilities. In such  cases, line management will be asked for authorization, local  employee representatives will be informed where applicable,  and local law will be observed at all times. Business travel Safety while traveling The safety of employees while on a business trip is of vital   importance to AkzoNobel. The company publishes an updated  list of countries where travel may be hazardous for health  or security reasons, and encourages the traveler and his/ her supervisor to exercise good judgment when determining  whether travel to a high-risk area is necessary. Combining business trips with   personal matters It is not permitted to combine business trips with a vacation,  or to take along a spouse, partner, relative, or friend without  the prior written authorization from the general manager of  the business or service unit. Air travel Continental flights Continental flights are generally to be made in the lowest  available class. Managers of business units, service units  and country organizations are free to issue guidelines to  allow business class for flights with a duration of more than  six consecutive hours. Intercontinental flights Business class or equivalent is the highest class allowed.  Exceptions to this rule require prior approval from the  responsible Board member.  AkzoNobel code of conduct   August 2008  15 Hotels AkzoNobel has contracted a number of preferred hotel  chains in major cities where AkzoNobel regularly conducts  business. Travelers must use these preferred hotels when  available. Travel by own car A private car can only be used for a business trip if the own- ers car insurance is adequate. The maximum distance for a  business trip with a private car is 500km one way, and the  costs will not exceed the lowest possible airfare and/or high- speed train fare, depending on the destination. Moreover,  personal safety has to be taken into account at all times. Train For travel by train, tickets can be booked first class. Reference The AkzoNobel business travel website (part of the  purchasing portal website on the intranet) provides most  travel information. Additional information is available from  AkzoNobel global travel management at AkzoNobel sourcing  in the Netherlands. Security The Board of Management shall decide upon restrictions  in business travel for all employees and/or measures to be  taken to safeguard the safety of expatriates and their families  in situations of political instability or other threats to public  security (e.g. acts of terrorism). The Secretary of the Board of Management shall commu- nicate such restrictions and/or measures to business unit  managers, service unit managers, corporate staff, and  managers of country organizations. These managers shall  be responsible for further information in their organizations,  and for the implementation of measures. Substance abuse Substance abuse can have devastating consequences in  general, at any work place and especially at a production  site. Therefore the use of any illegal drugs on AkzoNobel  premises is strictly forbidden. Illegal drugs include all drugs  except prescribed and over-the-counter drugs that have  been legally obtained and used only for the purpose for  which they were intended. AkzoNobel strongly encourages a business environment free  of alcohol, and on many AkzoNobel sites the use of alcoholic  beverages is banned altogether. Management can allow the  moderate consumption of alcohol for internal or external  events in accordance with local customs and practices. Employees who violate this policy may be subject to  disciplinary action. AkzoNobel will attempt to help employees with drug-related  problems. The nature of that help may vary, and will also  require the cooperation of the concerned employee.  www.akzonobel.com Were the largest global paints and coatings  company and a major producer of specialty  chemicals. We supply industries worldwide  with quality ingredients for lifes essentials.  We think about the future, but act in the  present. Were passionate about developing  sustainable answers for our customers.  Based in Amsterdam, the Netherlands,   we have 60,000 employees working in more   than 80 countries – all committed to excellence   and delivering Tomorrows Answers Today.  2008 Akzo Nobel N.V. All rights reserved.  Tomorrows Answers Today is a trademark  of Akzo Nobel N.V. 000187_040908