TEP BELGRUZAVTOTRANS is a Company which has been operating on international freight  forwarding and shipping market for almost 18 years. During the period its activities (starting from  the date of establishment in 1994) our Company has obtained reputation of highly qualified and  secure partner. Today TEP BELGRUZAVTOTRANS holds notable place among leading transport  companies. Our enterprise has been developed dynamically. We constantly renovate the fleet of  own trucks, use innovative solutions in logistics systems, develop professional skills of our special- ists. It supports in increasing efficiency and optimization of business processes, terms of delivery,  while excluding any intermediaries. Each our day is providing services and optimal solutions of transporting cargoes for companies  operating in different spheres and industries. TEP BELGRUZAVTOTRANS develops and realizes  multitask transport solutions for delivery of cargoes using automobile, sea, railroad and air trans- portation. We forward different types of products, such as chemical, metallurgical, wooden, fabric  and other goods. One of the main areas of our activity is transportation of dangerous (ADR) car- goes. For completing this mission we possess all required permissions and licenses, well trained  personnel and required devices. Performing multimodal shipments our company provides high level of service to all our clients.  Recognition of Companys professionalism confirmed by membership in such associations as In- ternational Federation of Freight Forwarders Associations (FIATA), Belarusian Association of In- ternational Road Carriers (BAIRC), Belarusian Association of International Forwarders (BAIF) and  Belarusian Chamber of Commerce. Statement of TEP Belgruzavtotrans General Director  to support Global Compact BELGRUZAVTOTRANS TRANSPORT & SPEDITION COMPANY  BELGRUZAVTOTRANS TRANSPORT & SPEDITION COMPANY Our company bases its activity on client-oriented principles. It is vitally important for us to con- quer and preserve clients trust. Understanding of customers demands and competent reaction on  their requests in modern conditions can be reached only by highly effective processes of operation.  Staffing Policy of the Company has been made to provide social security and maintaining safe  working conditions. Safe work, health and environmental protection are basic principles for reach- ing main targets of the enterprise. Since 2011 in our Company has been applied and active Quality  Management System ISO 9001 - 2009. In 2001 our Company was first to get SQAS certificate among transport enterprises in Belarus,  which confirmed matching all demands of European chemical enterprises CEFIC and allowing car- rying dangerous cargoes. We are purchasing Euro-5 standard trucks with low rate of air pollution.  All the trucks are equipped with devices for transporting dangerous cargoes for cargoes secure  fixing inside trailers. All the drivers have been specially trained regularly. The enterprise conducts  purposeful policy of accident decreasing of and diminishing number of malfunctioning of the fleet  along with excluding cases o traumatism. The Company have developed and applied effective payment system which stimulates employ- ees for effective performance, comprising on unity of each employees interests and the Company  in whole, which constantly have been upgraded and is up to date. There is a number of Clauses,  which aim efficiency of production, liquidate shortages, and support in reaching final results with  minimum expenses.  Our Company has constantly active educational system and system of professional skills im- provements. Each year we establish a plan of educational processes for employees. All financial  expenses are covered by the Company. Preparation and education of the personnel have been  conducted during the whole period of work to all employees of the Company. TEP BELGRUZAVTOTRANS organizes and covers expenses for medical treatment to all per- sonnel and pays all health insurance fees, which are stipulated by the rules of voluntary insurance  of medical expenses. Employees of the Company get financial help, anniversary rewards; children of the employees  get NewYear gifts. We organize annual competition among drivers, and winners have been reward- ed. It is stipulated rewards for personnel which maintained and adopted rationalization proposals,  fuel economy and so on. Our Company on voluntary basis regularly provides material assistance to Belarusian Society  of Disable People (annual help before Victory Day), deliver charitable support to Minsk Eparchy. TEP BELGRUZAVTOTRANS participates in Best Forwarder of the Year and Best Trans- porter of the Year in the Republic of Belarus contest and has become a winner many times in Be- larus and in CIS and awarded by IRU and BAIRC. In 2012 our company took part in the transport exhibition TransRussia 2012. As a result of  this exhibition we gained the opportunity to find new business partners as well as to promote the  services of our company on the market of international transportations.   General Director of TEP BELGRUZAVTOTRANS   M.Ioda BELGRUZAVTOTRANS TRANSPORT & SPEDITION COMPANY  Businesses should support and respect the protection of interna- tionally proclaimed human rights.  System Rules of corporate policy Rules of corporate management Quality policy Regulation in recruitment and resignation. Initiated steps In casual work TEP Belgruzavtotrans is driven by rules of Corporate policy and by principles, that are fixed by Constitution of Belarus and labor Code of the country. TEP Belgruzavtotrans follows, protects and supports human rights, providing the right to labor by creating working places. Individual contract is concluded with each employee it includes all right  and responsibilities of parties and also working, leisure and salary conditions and other things. TEP Belgruzavtotrans provides its employees health protection under legislation of Belarus , providing the possibility of privileged medical insurance. Annual voluntary vaccination against flu is  also prescribed.  In 2009-2011 TEP Belgruzavtotrans took active part in realization of publicly important projects,  directed on humans health protection. TEP Belgruzavtotrans has set integrated management quality system, responding with ISO BELGRUZAVTOTRANS TRANSPORT & SPEDITION COMPANY Principle 1:  9001:2009.Accepted standards promote the organization of effective client-oriented management,  reduction of nonproductive cost, providing and following the obligatory norms and requirements to  quality of service, improvement of cooperation with regulating and inspecting authorities and also  improvement of working conditions and safety at a working place. The accomplishment of the main duty in quality area is provided by: – setting up-to-date logistics technologies; – renewal of automobile fleet and keeping its technical condition in accordance with requirements of  UNECE; – professional training and retraining of employees and improvement  of employee motivation methods ; – improvement of planning processes, reporting and analyses – as a basis of making an effective  managing decisions; – setting in production and management IT technologies, software,  modern means of communication ; – improvement of companies actual quality system, constant search and setting of up-to-date tech- nologies and managing decisions that provide the reduction of negative responses and possible  noncompliance in organization of carriage and forwarding process. The main motivation in accomplishment of these duties are employees of our company. They make  their work skillfully, responsible and perfect. They show the initiative for the good of development of  the company. It is the guarantee of carrying out and functioning of the companies quality policy. Safe labor, health and maintenance of environment are basic principals in realization of main goals of the 141 company. Constant development and prosperity of the company- is the basis of individual well-being of each employee. In 2009-2011 TEP Belgruzavtotrans has recruited new employees. BELGRUZAVTOTRANS TRANSPORT & SPEDITION COMPANY –  Principle 2:  Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. System Rules of corporate behavior Rules of corporate managing Initiate steps TEP Belgruzavtotrans strictly follows the constitution of The Republic of Belarus and the labor leg- islation, providing the realization of basic human rights, right to work and right to rest. Fair payment system is set in the company. Each employee has the possibility to improve his/her  well-being constantly, through improving his/her effectiveness. Administration of the company rapidly  reacts on all remarks and requests of the employees, concerning working conditions. Communicat- ing system is set and successfully works in our company, which makes affairs between employers/ shareholders and recruited personnel absolutely transparent. BELGRUZAVTOTRANS TRANSPORT & SPEDITION COMPANY  Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the ef- fective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. System Rules of corporate managing Recruitment and dismissal statement Initiated steps Individual contract is concluded with each employee it includes all right and responsibilities of par- ties and also working, leisure and salary conditions and other things. TEP Belgruzavtotrans fully  provides the support of associations that protect rights of vulnerable society groups. Our company  supports such public associations as Belarussian association of invalids (annual transfers dedicated  to Victory day) makes charity help to Minsk eparchy. BELGRUZAVTOTRANS TRANSPORT & SPEDITION COMPANY Principle 3:  The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. System Rules of corporate managing Initiated steps System of labor contracts and titular instructions is set in TEP Belgruzavtotrans, where basic rights,  duties and functions of employees are spelled out. Any initiative that is outside of role duties and  which is making extra value to the company is favored. Also the company follows the rules of labor  schedule and extra-time working is paid in accordance with rates , that are set up buy Belarusian  legislation BELGRUZAVTOTRANS TRANSPORT & SPEDITION COMPANY Principle 4:  The effective abolition of child labor. System Rules of corporate behavior  Rules of corporate managing Individual labor contract between employees and TEP Belgruzavtotrans Initiated steps While making a labor contract with employee the company sets minimal age - 18 years. TEP Belgruzavtotrans doesnt create commerce and partner affairs with organizations that break the constitution and labor legislation of the Republic of Belarus in area of usage child and teen labor. BELGRUZAVTOTRANS TRANSPORT & SPEDITION COMPANY Principle 5:  The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and  occupation. System Quality management system Principles of corporate behavior   Initiated steps TEP Belgruzavtotrans does not have any internal laws, which discriminate personnel in racial, national, gender, social, religious, language or any other signs. Representatives of different nationali- ties  and religions completely freely work in our company.   In 2010-2011 effective motivation (payment) system, which puts all employees in even Conditions was applied and material rewards completely depend on results and efficiency of each  member of the Company. Besides that  the company has the statement about one-time payments and material aid. According  to it in the aim of social protection of employees, the system of extra payments in case of marriage,  birth of achild, death of close relatives, long-term illness and in case of ecological disaster, fire or  mutilation is set in our company. Besides one-time payments to employees are made in case of anniversary, retirement and dedicated  to the day of transport workers.  BELGRUZAVTOTRANS TRANSPORT & SPEDITION COMPANY Principle 6:  Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environ- mental challenges.   System Quality management system Principles of corporate behavior Initiated steps TEP Belgruzavtotrans strictly complies all demands of lean attitude towards to environment and  provides working conditions matching international ecological standards. Taking into account, that one of the main areas of our activity is transporting dangerous cargoes, we  emphasize, that all the drivers in our company as well as managing  personnel have regular educa- tion and trainings regarding specificity of carrying dangerous goods. Also our enterprise purchases  the newest devices for fixing the cargoes, in order to minimize probability of causing any harm to  ecology.  TEP Belgruzautotrans has SQAS certificate on compliance of demands and restrictions of Euro- pean chemical enterprises CEFIC on shipping and handling of dangerous cargoes. Besides, our company follows declared by the state policy of lean energy and electricity consumption. It has become possible due to: internal temperature regulation depending on external temperature applying highly effective energy saving lamps heat energy economy by using systems of property management BELGRUZAVTOTRANS TRANSPORT & SPEDITION COMPANY Principle 7:  Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsi- bility System Quality management system Principles of corporate behavior Initiated steps TEP Belgruzavtotrans undertakes measures in promotion basic principles of careful nature treat- ment, participating in realization of different social projects, such as Lets save Yelnya together  (measures to restore meliorated swamps of Belarus). In the company constantly has been conducted  informational and agitation work directed to nature protection. We also have measures of responsibili- ties for any deeds, causing harm to ecology. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally  friendly technologies. System Quality management system Initiated steps Due to specific character of transport-expedition enterprise, all our activities in this issue are aimed  on purchasing modern vehicles with the engines Euro-4, Euro-5 ecological standards, which deliver  minimum harmful substances in the air. In 2010-2011  the Company had widened its automobile fleet  on 10 such trucks. BELGRUZAVTOTRANS TRANSPORT & SPEDITION COMPANY Principle 8:  Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, includ- ing extortion and bribery. System Principles of corporate behavior Initiated steps Employees of the Company are informed in written and verbal form regarding the policy of the enter- prise in the sphere of financial policy and responsibility for violating basic transparency principles, as  well as creating precedents of unfair rivalry. In TEP BELGRUZAVTOTRANS is made a multilevel  harmonization system according to each agreement, which allows excluding any forms of corruption  and bribery. Besides, the company has own system of internal audit, which has a mission to reveal  any cases alike. We have to stress out, that in 2009-2011 according to BAIRCs report, the level of official prices was  one of the highest on the market, what means, that our Company does not hide its real earnings. BELGRUZAVTOTRANS TRANSPORT & SPEDITION COMPANY Principle 9:  Conclusion TEP Belgruzavtotrans has been constantly developing its business processes taking into account  the above mentioned Ten Principles of the Global Compact They are very necessary guidelines to build any business in right form. This approach not only helps to maintain better relations inside and outside the Company, but also  strengthen competitive advantages of the company, and secure the business in whole. Besides, see, that following the basic principles of the Global Compact is a great example for other  companies dealing with us. That is why we consider our membership in UN Global Compact as valu- able resource, empowering our activities in very right direction TEP BELGRUZAVTOTRANS  TRANSPORT & LOGISTICS COMPANY Contact information Babushkin str, 33  Minsk Republic of Belarus 220024 Tel: + 375 17 291 94 60  Fax: + 375 17 291 94 12   www.belgruz.ru    www.belgruz.by  BELGRUZAVTOTRANS TRANSPORT & SPEDITION COMPANY  Annual quantity of shipments 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 BELGRUZAVTOTRANS TRANSPORT & SPEDITION COMPANY  BELGRUZAVTOTRANS TRANSPORT & SPEDITION COMPANY Dynamics of automobile fleet development 0 2000 4000 6000 8000 10000 12000 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011