2011 CORPORATE   SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PANTONE 871 C PANTONE 4975 C  Social SociETY EnvironmEnT GovErnancE / EconomicS message from maurice lvy     p. 1 preliminary comments     p. 2 chapTEr 1 – Social     p. 4 1.1 Human rights  1.2 Labor practices and decent work human rights – Themes and Gri indicators     p. 5  HR1, HR2, HR3, HR4, HR5, HR6, HR7, HR8 labor practices and decent work – Themes and Gri indicators     p. 7  LA1, LA2, LA3, LA4, LA5, LA6, LA7, LA8, LA9, LA10, LA11, LA12, LA13, LA14 chapTEr 2 – SociETY     p. 15 2.1 Cultural / Community issues  Society – Themes and Gri indicators     p. 16  SO1, SO2, SO3, SO4, SO5, SO6, SO7, SO8 chapTEr 3 – GovErnancE & EconomicS     p. 21 3.1 Economics  Economics – Themes and Gri indicators     p. 23  EC1, EC2, EC3, EC4, EC5, EC6, EC7  responsibility for products and services – Themes and Gri indicators    p. 25  PR1, PR2, PR3, PR4, PR5, PR6, PR7, PR8, PR9 chapTEr 4 – EnvironmEnT     p. 28 4.1 Environment  Environment – Themes and Gri indicators     p. 29  EN1, EN2, EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN8, EN9, EN10, EN11, EN12, EN13,   EN14, EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19, EN20, EN21, EN22, EN23, EN24,   EN25, EN26, EN27, EN28, EN29, EN30  1 P ublicis Groupe has resolutely committed to   its Corporate Social Responsibility policy over the  past several years. To ensure the continuity and  adoption of this policy across all our entities, it must be  developed in partnership with our clients. It is a policy  that must be embraced by each and every member of  the Groupes staff. This is by no means the least of the challenges facing us.  We are present in over a hundred countries with more  than 800 agencies and a staff of over 53,000. Because  of the different regulations, cultures and sensitivities,  the need to inform, raise awareness and train our people  is quite considerable if we are to implement a consistent  policy. That said, we are naturally more inclined to focus  of the quality of service we provide to our clients rather  than on our own internal requirements. I am acutely  aware of the difficulties involved in implementing   this type of policy and am very grateful to the teams  responsible for this work which is of the utmost  importance for the Groupes future. We have chosen an active approach in four areas: Social  issues (for and with our employees), Society (our role in  society), Governance (how we operate, our code of ethics),  and Environment (the impact of our activities). This leads us to devise plans of action for each area, while  ensuring they integrate well across all our activities and  sectors. Very early on, we developed a Code of Good Conduct  that is now one of the structural elements of our CSR policy.  We still have a long way to go to reach a satisfactory level in  the different areas of focus. We are working hard to achieve  this goal because we are convinced that the best way to do  our work is obviously to do it well, and to make sure this  effort is understood by those around us. Communications must be responsible. That is an  absolute necessity. Our clients are demanding and  require us to factor in new dimensions underpinning the  notion of sustainability in our proposals and productions.  Citizen-consumers also have high expectations.  We therefore have a major role to play. Moreover,  these responsible communications are built with the  implication of many people and are constantly changing  since the new digital technologies have given both voice  and power to citizen-consumers. This is what makes the  challenges of the years to come so exciting. maurice lvy chairman of the management Board Chairmans message  2 inTroducTion This third Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report marks  the end of an important cycle. As Chairman Maurice Lvy has  pointed out, this is an ongoing commitment.  In 2007 and 2008, we took the necessary steps to  embark on this form of non-financial reporting, in  anticipation of the then future regulatory obligation  to publish a CSR report in France. To put matters into  perspective, for a Groupe whose business is mainly  immaterial (provision of intellectual services) and  whose culture is more oral than written, to undertake  CSR reporting was something of a mini-revolution. From  the ethics and strategy perspective, the Groupe has  long since been attuned to the need to evolve towards  greater sustainability. Though non-financial CSR reporting  is somewhat new and complex, it does have the merit  of inciting us to greater discipline, consistency and  relevance in devising and tracking the plans of action  we roll out. More importantly, it shows us just how much  progress can be achieved in numerous areas, which is  particularly encouraging, even though we know there  will have to be priorities. Our first CSR report covered the year 2009 and was based  on the same three-part rationale that has governed this  2011 report: -  firstly, to include the entire Groupe in the scope of the  report despite the difficulties this entailed (over 800 entities  throughout the world and an organization that is regularly  being modified) and the attendant risk of errors. In other  words, a scope that has been evolving in a natural, logical  manner between 2009 and 2011; -  secondly, over and beyond the requirements of the 2002  French NRE law (Nouvelles Rgulations conomiques -  literally new economic regulations), we opted to align  these requirements with the Global reporting initiative  (GRI) already used by a number of our clients and  suppliers, in order to structure the data in the report. The  GRI framework is sometimes a little rigid for a group like  ours, but nonetheless spans an interesting spectrum of  indicators; -  thirdly, the goal of immediately calculating the Groupes  impact on the environment and its greenhouse gas  emissions embracing –all business units– again in  anticipation of legal requirements (French Grenelle II law  on the environment), and using two different assessment  methods (French/European carbon footprint method and  the GHG protocol). This 2011 CSR report provides a more stable inventory  that includes a large number of themes and indicators. It  need hardly be recalled that this report must be read in  conjunction with Publicis Groupes Registration Document  (available at www.publicisgroupe.com) which comprises  detailed and essential information on the company, its  businesses, markets, financial statements and risk factors  that are not given in the CSR report. With the hindsight we now have at the end of this three-year  cycle, it will be easier to set quantitative targets for certain  indicators, thus commencing a new cycle. The challenge is therefore to continue raising awareness, on  the one hand, among management and staff with regard to  all these new challenges that influence our daily lives and the  way we work, and, on the other hand, in the work we do for  and with our clients. The recommendations we make in our  communications campaigns must integrate and take into  account CSR considerations. The Groupes Corporate Social Responsibility department  is operated on a push-and-pull basis. The Groupe sets  strategic orientations and work targets in conjunction with  the networks and agencies, while its highly decentralized  structure leaves the agencies considerable leeway to  determine their own priorities. Along with staff, clients, suppliers and all our stakeholders,  we must improve and progress together in order to play our  part in making the world fairer and more sustainable place. mathias Emmerich, General Secretary Eve magnant, vp – director corporate Social  responsibility Preliminary comments  3 mEThodoloGY and FramEwork Scope: Quantitative data are reported via a dedicated tool with  the help of the Financial Department, the data being collated  within each entity with support from Re:Sources, the Shared  Services Centers (SSCs). These data are checked in-house in accordance with the  Groupes procedures. nearly 95% of the entities controlled  by the Groupe are covered in this 2011 CSR report. Qualitative  data (which are selectively analyzed by theme and not just a  catalog) are centralized by the head of the networks and then  completed locally by the agencies where necessary. The reference systems used and quoted are based on the  following: -  the French NRE law (Nouvelles Rgulations conomiques,  2002) and its most recent enforcement decree (2012), as  well as the French Grenelle II law (art. 225); -  the GRI – Global Reporting Initiative (see www.globalreporting. org) – taking into account a very large number of indicators  (on the basis of the comply or explain rule); -  the UN Global Compact, signed by Publicis Groupe in 2003,  a commitment that is reasserted every year, and the UN  Caring for Climate pledge signed in 2007; -  ISO 26000: As the Groupe takes part in a number of different  working groups, ISO 26000 is used today as a new and  complementary guidance, in order to address Corporate  Social Responsibility from an even more global perspective.  4 Chapter 1   social  5 With nearly 54,000 people working around the world, Publicis Groupe has a terrific strength: the men and  the women who make up its teams. The formula may sometimes seem overused, yet its the plain truth. This diversity of talent, skills,  experience –and above all this vast community of passionate, enthusiastic and highly motivated men and  women who make up the Groupes human capital– is one of the key factors behind the Groupes success.  Our major challenge is twofold: to build up our teams in order to foster creativity and bring our clients  projects to fruition, and to nurture individual changes in terms of skills and career management.   The challenge demandes work: on the individual and collective levels.  There is a very high turnover in our businesses, an aspect shared by the entire industry. This is owed  partly to a characteristic proper to the profession: the operations of all our agencies depend on powerful  internal dynamics in which changing client teams is part of why we can constantly build strong  proposals, give our recommendations a driving force and avoid the creative fatigue that could naturally  set in after a few years. In management terms, the challenge consists in being able to offer our people  the possibility of working on other projects, thus enlarging their spectrum of skills and experiences.   In addition there are the specific economic and historical factors that can influence staff movements.  Therefore there is a paradox that we have to manage on a daily basis: we have to build staff loyalty and  manage team rotations, in the best interests of our people, the Groupes agencies and our clients. Training  is one of the keys to achieve this twofold objective. In a business infused with continuous technological  innovation, our competitive edge must be imperatively and constantly reinforced. Training becomes   more flexible, it moves faster, morphing into multiple forms, wholly invested in new digital tools.  Our Groupe policy remains anchored on a solid baseline: increasing the skills of all our staff members. Our objective remains the same: enabling our people to work efficiently and feel good about their work.  For each agency, this is a daily challenge. It is a process in perpetual motion. Priorities for action are  therefore determined locally, within the framework of a policy determined by each network, respecting   the Groupes common goal. IMPORTANT: Many key themes are long-term, and actions (or projects, approaches) undertaken by the Groupe are designed to span  several years. This is why we try in this 2011 report to emphasize new developments and key events (to avoid repetition of themes  developed in previous years).  1.1 human riGhTS 1.1.1 Investment and procurement practices   Percentage and total number of significant investment  agreements that include human rights clauses or that  have undergone human rights screening.   For the firm, and particularly with respect to our people,  Janus, the internal Code of Conduct, is the main reference  for keeping our managers and staff abreast of their rights  and duties. It is true that the great majority of our people  are highly educated and qualified professionals, but we still  review the basic principles with them on a regular basis.  Knowledge of the fundamental rules is essential, as is a  thorough familiarity with local rules and regulations. We  continuously remind our staff of the key principles advo- cated by the ILO (International Labor Organization), with  GRI HR1 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 1 FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.9 ISO 26000 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.6.6  6 specific attention to: - gender equality in employment and income; -  the scope and efficiency of social protection for   everyone; - reinforcing social dialog.   All Groupe supplier contracts (central and regional) contain  criteria relating to human rights through our Publicis  Groupe Procurement CSR Questionnaire – see HR2.   Through its pro bono campaigns to support human rights  causes, carried out via its agencies and networks, the  Groupe has remained a staunch defender of those basic  rights and freedoms. In this manner, the Groupe exer- cises a kind of dutiful vigilance. This is how our concrete   actions find their strongest and most legitimate expression.    Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that  have undergone screening on human rights, and actions  taken.   In addition to major Groupe contracts managed at the cen- tral level, the Groupe Procurement Department has estab- lished its own internal guidance, the CSR Procurement  Chart. As a consequence, the contracts handled by the  Procurement staff in Re:Sources are designed to extend  application of the Publicis Groupe Procurement CSR Ques- tionnaire to a larger number of suppliers.   Together with the Groupes main partners and suppliers, cer- tain points concerning compliance with human rights with- in their organizations and supply chains are addressed in  contractual reviews on an annual and/or semi-annual basis.    The Groupe does not have the capacity to carry out on-site  monitoring.      Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures  concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to ope- rations, including the percentage of employees trained.   Compliance with human rights is part of the Groupes stead- fast and inalienable internal values. It is a component of   the Difference in the Groupes corporate culture. All em- ployees, especially new recruits as they go through their   initial orientation sessions, are reminded of these values.  1.1.2 Non-discrimination   Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions   taken.   Janus serves as a reminder, in several chapters of the   internal Code of Conduct, of the intangible principle of non- discrimination. Staff members must be chosen, either when  they join the Groupe or when they go through career moves  within the firm, solely on the basis of their professional qua- lities, must not benefit from preferential treatment and must  not be discriminated against in any way (Janus).   The Groupes HR Committee chaired by the General Secre- tary pays particularly close attention to this issue and is  doubly vigilant in its regard. To date, no complaint filed on  the basis of possible discrimination, notably in the US, has  ever been admitted on these grounds in the courts. Notwith-  standing, each case that arises is subjected to a thorough  internal investigation, which gives rise to a critical exami- nation of our in-house practices. The intangible postulate of  non-discrimination is thus reiterated in each networks HR  policy.    The judicial procedure referred to in the 2010 CSR Report,  involving a former employee of MSLGROUP in the US, is still  pending. We recall that the US Equal Employment Opportu- nity Commission (EEOC ) examined the claim in 2010 and  stated that the case does not present any infringement or  violation of the law. The Groupe continues to uphold that the  claim is unfounded and remains determined to defend its  case in the courts.  1.1.3  Freedom of association and collective   bargaining GRI HR5 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 3 FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.3Art. 2.4 iSo 26000 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.3.8  6.3.10, 6.4.3, 6.4.5  Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom  of association and collective bargaining may be at signifi- cant risk, and actions taken to support these rights.   The Code of Conduct section of Janus states that in addi- tion to complying with the legal obligations specific to each  GRI HR2 GLObAL COmPACt Principles 1 & 2 FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.9 ISO 26000 6.3, 6.6.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.6 GRI HR3 GLObAL COmPACt Principles 1 & 2   ISO 26000 6.3, 6.3.5 GRI HR4 GLObAL COmPACt Principles 1 & 6 FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.3 - Art. 2.7 ISO 26000 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3  7 country, it is very important to foster social dialog and to  listen closely to what our employees have to say.    The majority of our agencies employ an average of  between 50 and 100 persons (except very large agen- cies with more than 300 employees, which means there  are a great number of very small entities). This is a size  conducive to direct relations between staff and manage- ment.   Freedom of association and collective bargaining are part of  fundamental human rights, compliance with which is one of  the Groupes main concerns.  1.1.4 Child labor GRI HR6 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 5   ISO 26000 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.3.7, 6.3.10  Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents  of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the   elimination of child labor.   The Groupes operations (providing intellectual services) do  not directly entail any risk of child labor issues.   Janus stipulates in the Code of Conduct that child labor  is prohibited, and it is necessary to integrate this principle  into our work.    This commitment is also reiterated in the Publicis Groupe  Procurement CSR Questionnaire of the Groupes Procure- ment Department, and made known to our suppliers.  1.1.5 Forced and compulsory labor GRI HR7 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 4   ISO 26000 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.3.7, 6.3.10 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents  of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to  the elimination of forced or compulsory labor.   Due to our business specificities, there is no risk in our opera- tions of forced or compulsory labor. Janus states very explic- itly that such forced or compulsory labor is prohibited and that  we must ensure compliance.    Likewise, this same commitment is contained in the  Publicis Groupe Procurement CSR Questionnaire of the  Groupes Procurement Department and required of to our  suppliers.  1.1.6 Security practices GRI HR8     ISO 26000 6.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.6  Percentage of security personnel trained in the organiza- tions policies or procedures concerning aspects of human  rights that are relevant to operations.   Security agents working on our premises are not directly  employed by the Groupe; they work for specialized compa- nies.   The only exception made is for the Groupes headquarters  in Paris, where the in-house security team is made up of  firemen.   1.1.7 Indigenous rights GRI HR9   FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.4  ISO 26000 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.8, 6.6.7  Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of  indigenous people.   The Groupes businesses (offering intellectual services),  which operate through offices in large cities, do not involve  any risks for the rights of indigenous peoples.  1.2 laBor pracTicES and dEcEnT work 1.2.1 Employment GRI LA1   FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.1a - Art. 2.2 - Art. 2.3 ISO 26000 6.4, 6.4.3  Total workforce by employment type, employment contract  and region.  8  Gender balance in 2011:  55% women (average age: 33)  45% men (average age: 34) These figures are essentially stable.   Workforce breakdown by geography   Workforce breakdown by activity (%) Nota bene: - Independent freelancers contributing to projects: Since 2011, the  Groupe has taken on a significant number of freelancers to work  with in-house staff. - Interns go through training in agencies on a regular basis. They  are students who, as part of their studies, come to discover the  world of communications and its various professions. They stay  for an average of 3 months and are not included in the Groupe  headcount. GRI LA2     ISO 26000 6.4, 6.4.3  Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group,  gender and region.  Turnover rate in 2011: 28.5%  Calculation method: total number of departures (over 12  months) is divided by the average headcount over the same  period, multiplied by 100 for percentage purposes.   Internal mobility: The Groupe continues to work on determi- ning a reliable indicator, which is not yet stable for the Groupe  as a whole: It works out at less than 10%.  Calculation method: total number of employees leaving an  agency to work in another Groupe entity, divided by average  headcount, multiplied by 100 to arrive at a percentage. GRI LA3 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 3   ISO 26000 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4  Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to  temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 2009 2010 2011 52 48 55 45 55 45 Latin America 4,462 Asia-Pacific 11,681 Middle East and Africa  2,010 Europe 16,864 North America  18,790 Management/Administration 16 Media and Research  22 Other 4 Sales  20 Creation  17 Production and specialized  activities  21 2009* 2010 2011 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 26% 27% 28.5% * Smaller scope of consolidation (85%) 35 40  9   Nearly 100% of employees receive social security bene- fits (provided by the state and/or the Company, according  to law and to the employers stated commitments).   An annual medical examination is required by law in almost  every European country. In the US, this type of medical  benefit is more a voluntary process decided by individual  employees, to which the company may contribute. The  Groupe sees that this examination is proposed to em- ployees in other countries where the law does not require  it, beyond the initial examination upon hiring. Evaluation  of this practice is difficult because in certain countries it  enters into the area of personal information, which is pro- tected everywhere by individual privacy laws. Through its  plans of action and information campaigns set up by the  HR people in Re:Sources, the Groupe has undertaken to  encourage its staff to have regular medical check-ups for  preventive purposes (every 12 to 18 months).  1.2.2 Labor/management relations GRI LA4 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 3  FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.1 a - Art. 2.4 ISO 26000 6.3.10, 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5  Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining  agreements.   A Groupe indicator is not pertinent in that this is a very Euro- pean concept, which defines a framework for negotiations.    In most European countries where this principle is followed,  agency employees are covered by a collective bargaining  agreement. In France, for example, all employees are cov- ered mainly by the Collective Bargaining Agreement applicable  to the Advertising sector (though they can also be covered by  other collective agreements pertaining to different trades,  depending on their jobs).  GRI LA5 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 3  FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.1 a - Art. 2.4 ISO 26000 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5  Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational  changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements.   This legal obligation is contained in every Collective Bargain- ing Agreement in accordance with the terms and provisions  applicable in each country; there is no unique regulation in  this respect.    In addition to what is stipulated in each Collective Bargain- ing Agreement, the Groupe ensures that staff members are  always fully informed, especially with regard to changes in  the organization. This is no mean task, taking account of  how quickly the Groupe is evolving and constantly trans- forming.  1.2.3 Occupational health and safety GRI LA6   FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.5 ISO 26000 6.4, 6.4.6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint  management/worker health and safety committees that  help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety  programs.    The greater part of Groupe personnel is based in offices lo- cated in buildings in which the Groupes agencies are not the  only tenants. Depending on local regulations, most of our  agencies have committees, with equal or multi-party repre- sentation, to address and treat health and safety issues in  the workplace.    Whatever the formal context, the same major questions arise  in every situation: -  providing a safe working environment, free of any danger  and risk; -  fostering a materially comfortable workplace in pleasant  surroundings (arranging the different spaces, making sure  employees are comfortable and their work life is a good  one).   In the US, there is a Federal law (under the Occupational Safety  and Health Administration) which can be completed by laws in  every State, and even reinforced by a city ordinance.   In Europe, this is the remit of local Health and Safety Com- mittees, the purpose of which is similar to that of the French  CHSCT (Comit dHygine et de Scurit des Conditions de Travail  – or Health, safety and working conditions committee).   All these measures aim to ensure dialog and ongoing consult- ation in order to improve working conditions and work life  in the building.    A statistical indicator for the Groupe would not be informative  in this instance because of the different names of the bodies  concerned and the varying responsibilities of the different  committees. However, employee/management relations are  addressed and followed up in several Groupe agencies re- garding such issues as Well-Being in the workplace (and anti- stress measures and Work Life Balance). There are joint  working groups that meet regularly, involving management,  to devise specific plans of action within the agencies.   10 GRI LA7   FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.4 - Art. 2.5 ISO 26000 6.4, 6.4.6 Absenteeism.  The Groupe continues to use an overall Groupe indicator.   In 2011, absenteeism worked out at 2% (stable from 2% in  2010, the first year of testing the indicator). Calculation method: in percentage terms, the number of  days lost - for absences other than for maternity/paternity  leaves and paid vacations - out of the total number of working  days. GRI LA8   FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.5 ISO 26000 6.4, 6.4.6, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, 6.8.8  Educational, training, counseling, prevention and risk- control programs in place to assist workforce members,  their families or community members regarding serious  diseases.   The Groupe has no overall preventive programs for health  risks, in the light of the nature of its businesses (intellectual  services) and its highly decentralized structure.    However, in each country and in each agency this risk is  addressed in three ways, on a voluntary basis:  - for seasonal epidemics (such as the flu), the agencies  who wish to do so set up preventive plans for their em- ployees with ad hoc partners (such as vaccination cam- paigns); - in respect of nationwide prevention measures (anti-smok- ing, anti-alcohol programs or testing for certain pathologies),  agencies carry out information campaigns in an effort to  spread the details into the workplace and encourage such  prevention programs; - as part of exploration and action plans on the themes  of Well-Being in the Workplace and anti-stress cam- paigns, preventive actions can be carried out to raise  staff awareness of certain risks in the agencies. This is  how the Groupe acts to prevent Repetitive Strain Injury  (RSI), which is a frequent affliction among sedentary   employees who work on computer screens, as well as  eyesight problems. Information and awareness ses- sions are conducted in several agencies as a preventive   measure.    GRI LA9   FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.4 - Art. 2.5 ISO 26000 6.4, 6.4.6  Health and security topics covered in formal agreements  with trade unions.   These issues can be reviewed only on a country-by-country  basis.    In in-house programs such as Work Life Balance (or anti- stress measures), we approach questions in connection with  the pace of work, important matters in the communications  professions where the pace is naturally intense, and where  keen and quick responsiveness is a major challenge in this  heavily digitized working environment.    1.2.4 training and education GRI LA10 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 6  FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.6 ISO 26000 6.4, 6.4.7  Average hours of training per year per employee and by   employee category.   In 2011, the Groupe provided roughly 85,600 training days  (compared to 110,000 in 2010, a figure that included online  sessions, now referred to as e-learning and accounted for  separately below). There were 64,000 training days in 2009 in  a smaller scope of consolidation.   In addition to this, in 2011, there were 31,135 hours of e-learn- ing, comprised of shorter sessions (between 1 and 3 hours).  This figure is probably not yet complete, given the great number  of very short in-house training sessions (1 hour), which make  up a form of ongoing training very much used for digital appli- cations.   56% of total employees were trained in 2011: an indicator that  has been improved but is probably not yet complete.  2009* 2010** 2011** 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 47% 52% 56% * Smaller scope of consolidation (85%) ** Total Groupe (90% to 95%)  11 GRI LA11  GLObAL COmPACt Principle 6 FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.3 - Art. 2.6 iSo 26000 6.4, 6.4.7, 6.8.5 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that  support the continued employability of employees and   assist them in managing career endings.   The Groupe considers that two areas of training are central   to structuring the training programs in the networks and  agencies: - Management skills: Staff members can go through major  career moves and rapidly take on greater responsibilities  in their agencies. These young managers therefore have to  acquire solid basic skills in management: it is important to  help them and, on an ad hoc basis, give them the means  to assume their new job positions. Management training is  essential in all areas of our businesses activities.  - Skills and mastery of digital technologies: The Groupes stra- tegic move to digital went hand in hand with a higher level  of competence in this field. The skills used are many, on a  global level and very local levels. It is not simply a question  of technical and technological skills, but also creative and  marketing skills that involve a high degree of professional  know-how in all these new fields, which for some people did  not exist ten or even five years ago.  FocuS major training areas in network   programs  All agencies have implemented training using outside support, but have  also deployed many internal sessions to optimize knowledge sharing. The  proportion of Webinars and online sessions has increased considerably.  Changes in our working methods happen so fast that keeping our people  up to performance is a constant challenge. The examples below are typical  of how far some of these changes have taken us, along with some of the  basic themes and approaches job training has taken.  - Zenithoptimedia uk has for some years now been running the   ZenithOptimedia Academy for numerous internal training programs. In  2011, Google Advertising Professionals Academy helped more than 100  staff qualify for the search section (Google Search Qualification); this  agency was the most proactive in its market, putting in the most effort in  this field. In the same spirit, ZenithOptimedia China took a similar approach  with Google concerning more than 50 people. Training on Touch Points, and  a number of media impact analysis tools (both new and traditional media)  was implemented in several countries (US, China, Spain, Portugal and  others). A significant effort was made towards increasing knowledge of  digital communities, how they are articulated, how they function and their  leverage sources. In addition, several leadership programs concentrated on  helping groups of between 30 and 50 people to acquire and improve their  management skills (in the UK, China, France and elsewhere). - Starcom mediavest Group: The network has a far-reaching e-learning  catalog, also with programs in common with Google, aiming to  optimize skills in detecting changes, possible applications and results  analysis. Nearly 3,500 individual training sessions were held. SMG UK  continued its Management Development Series to assist managers in  their job functions. New training courses were rolled out with clients;  these joint sessions are one of the agencys success factors. In China,  a five-day seminar for new staff brought the younger teams up to par  on the networks proprietary methods and tools. In Vietnam, a session  lasting several days for rising talent and managers concentrated on  knowledge of the broad trends in the industry. In Argentina, several  online programs enabled the entire agency to follow a complete  review of ongoing themes, from brand strategies to new mobile  applications. In Australia, sessions of several days for 100 persons  were dedicated to an overview of the fundamentals of all aspects of  the profession. - digitas uSa has for several years had a dynamic internal program  called Learning & Development at Digitas (L&D) divided into three dif- ferent sections: the basics, core skills (technical and managerial), and  tailor-made programs with outside training experts. In addition to the  quasi-continuous sessions on technical subjects in 2011, the empha- sis was on three career management programs: for new recruits, New  Employee Immersion comprised several modules for more than 400  people; skills enhancement (277 young staff members) and leadership/ project management (435 members). Three other programs addressed  Team Leadership qualities, taking 110 people; a course at How to pre- serve inspiration and renew your ideas 137 people; and for 370 people,  on the indispensable ability to make effective and sharp presentations  to clients. The concepts of skill sharing and working together were pointed  up through a training session involving more than 60 people. A new   program on transgenerational management was implemented for nearly  90 people. - razorfish: Career Lab was followed by 1,750 staff members, who  received overall training in this program which is divided into several  modules, designed to help them manage their careers. Another program  addressed working with clients and following up on projects (150 mem- bers). Some of Razorfishs Webinars are now open to Digitas staff and  other VivaKi entities, with a view to enhancing the sharing of know-how  and knowledge.  - publicis healthcare communications Group (PHCG): The network  took stock of the diverse needs of its agencies and set up an   e-learning library containing more than 200 different sessions made  available and accessible to all staff members (seven languages),  covering the principle aspects of the specific know-how of PHCG   in the healthcare field. Management training sessions were held for  150 people in the US and 160 in the UK. Compliance sessions are  ongoing in several countries, generally lasting one day, to bring team  members up to date on rules and regulations in this respect. For digital  applications, Lunch and Learn sessions are planned all year long,  with small groups of 10 to 20 receiving training in the latest changes  in technology and new applications.  - leo Burnett has been running an in-house university (LBU) for sev- eral years, spanning several different fields and training programs  for five broad levels of employees, from Entry Level to Top Senior  Management. An important 2-day session in New Media Training was  held for 500 employees in the US (and nearly 250 in the UK), on the   12 subjects of technological innovations, new applications and creativ- ity. In the same vein, a specific three-day training session brought  160 Executive Managers up to date on issues involving new media and  social media, new consumer behaviors linked to these media, and their  various impacts in terms of business. Leo Burnett continues its TANK  program, a 5-day training module for juniors in the network, mainly in  the US. Two management programs stand out: the People Management  Program, which was followed by 100 managers, and the New Mana- ger Program followed by 60 staff members. Both programs are geared  towards improving teamwork and a better grasp of the keys to good  management. - Saatchi & Saatchi: Training in the network is organized through a vast  array of programs, often according to country and with support from  specialized institutions. In the US, all employees followed a one-day  session on Ethics, which is fundamental to two aspects of our business:  enhancing the knowledge and awareness of staff members, and ensur- ing the quality of the work we do for our clients. Likewise in this spirit,  there are seminars with those clients with a view to consolidating their  grasp on ethical issues. In China, 250 staff members followed the inter- nal program called Lovemarks, on in-house culture and the conceptual  issues deployed in our work with clients. These seminars are held in  almost every large S&S agency. Also in China, two programs were imple- mented: one on management and teamwork, the other on strategic and  creative work. In keeping with a network tradition, several agencies and  teams have sessions dedicated to team building. All the large agencies  rolled out training modules on digital technology to keep the team per- formance levels up to par.  - publicis worldwide deployed a vast global program for more than  2,800 employees, with an introduction to the culture, positioning and  working methods of the network. A Digital Bootcamp, designed for  250 staff in the US and South Africa, enabled them to improve their  digital skills. Along the same lines in Brazil, intensive one-day sess- ions (in four groups) were aimed at 90 people who learned to better  understand the possibilities and performances of digital communica- tion (innovations on mobile units, new types of e-commerce, etc.). In  Russia, training programs for fifty staff members treated new forms  of dialog and the Digital Conversational Process. And in Mexico, the  accent was on social networks and all new forms of interaction. Publicis  Worldwide also continued its training modules on Creativity and Invent- iveness, and changes in the professions such as Trade Marketing  among others. - Fallon, continuing former actions, has an intensive training agenda  aimed at all divisions in its agencies, which is very closely followed   in London. Brainfoods, the online training program, covers a great  number of subjects with a prospective purpose as well as eductional  objectives. These modules are widely used by the US teams in  Minneapolis with as many as 60 to 100 participants each time. - mSlGroup, through its MSL Academy, deployed applications Webi- nars in digital technology in its different entities, led by both internal  and outside experts in the field. In the US, the agency continued to roll  out its Client Engagement modules. MSLGROUP New York and Canada  also worked on a joint training module called Impact & Influence. In  China, two large sessions for 200 staff members were held, one lasting  seven days, on New and Social Media and Social Networking Strat- egy. Three main themes were developed through agencies in Asia:  Knowledge & Expertise, New business skills and Social Media &  Reputation. In Europe, several agencies conducted sessions on the  culture of the network. GRI LA12 FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.3 - Art. 2.6 ISO 26000 6.4, 6.4.7 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and  career development reviews.   In 2011, 77% of total employees had a formal evaluation   interview.   The Groupes objective remains the same: arranging to hold  an official interview for every staff member once a year.  The high level of turnover over the 12-month period had an  influence on the scheduling of those interviews. FocuS In-house climate – or internal satisfaction surveys.  It is ingrained in some networks cultures to conduct this type of   traditional annual interview for staff members, especially at Leo Burnett,  where this regular practice has been established for nearly 10 years  (other networks conduct similar interviews but every 18 or 24  months). Even if each network functions with its specific approach,  we applied the same grid for overall analysis in 2011, to arrive at the  following summary conclusions on what areas need to be improved.   It is still frequent (except at Leo Burnett, Digitas, Razorfish, Fallon US,  Kaplan Thaler Group and certain agencies of each network), that the  notion of recognition receives a low note from employees.   Despite the Groupes expansion, employees are hard put to see the  possibility of career changes within the Groupe (the very notion of  Groupe is still recent, and bridges between entities are being set up). 2009* 2010 2011 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 66% 67% 77% * Smaller scope of consolidation  13  Diversity has emerged as an important issue that merits closer attention. On the other hand, the strengths that came out of the staff survey are as   follows:   a real pride in being part of their network (and/or agency); this emerged in  almost every network and large agency, and reveals a great sense of com- mitment on the part of our people;   true satisfaction in their daily work;  a good impression of their agency/network/Groupe as an employer. 1.2.5 Diversity and equal opportunities GRI LA13   FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.3 - Art. 2.4 ISO 26000 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4  Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of   employees per category according to gender, age group,   minority group membership and other indicators of diver- sity.   Gender balance Groupe-wide gender balance in 2011:  55% women (Average age: 33 years)  45% men (Average age: 34 years)  These data are essentially stable (see diagram p. 9).   Supervisory Board: Chaired by Mrs. Elisabeth Badinter, in 2011  the Board was made up of seven women out of 16 members,  i.e., 44% women. Since 2012, there are seven women out of a  total of 14 members, thus 50% women.   Management Board: Composed of 5 men. The P 12 or Exec- utive Committee had two women out of 12 members at   1 December 2011 (16%, as in 2010); since then, there has  been one woman for 12 members (8%).   Strategic Leadership Team (a think-tank and strategic  orientation group) set up in mid-2011 (see 2011 Registration  Document, p. 47) is comprised of the members of P 12 plus  nine others, of whom two are women.  Presence of women on executive committees: - at network leadership levels alone: 30% women (versus 28.6%  in 2010); - within networks and agencies or entities: 40% women (versus  39% in 2010).   VivaWomen!: In 2011 an internal womens network was  born in the Groupe. The main goal is to accompany women  working in the Groupe in their personal and career  orientations, with the approach that men and women must  work together on this topic and find answers and solutions to  certain problems that are more often encountered  specifically by women. For the first year, VivaWomen! was  set up in the US, France and China. Deployment will continue  on local levels in order to ensure consistency with local  cultures. Several actions are already underway, including  mentoring for women: meetings with experts to share  experiences and best practices; working groups on concrete,  specific topics in which the content or scope touches other  areas which are not exclusively women-oriented.    Affinity groups: The list of affinity groups is long, and they   depend greatly on the local context of each country; the  emergence of these groups, and their activities, fully reflect  the more global trends that are found in the societies of sever- al countries.    In 2011 in the US, after several years of smaller groups exist- ing in the agencies, a cross-agency affinity group emerged  called galit. The objective is to be a resource and provide  support for members and their allies (as the continuation of  the movement labeled LGBT: Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans- gender). Their dual goal is to facilitate staff integration and  serve as a source of information for these communities, some-  times working with clients. 2009* 2010 2011 0 10 20 30 40 50 42% 39% 40% * Smaller scope of consolidation (85%)  14 FocuS Diversity  All the work done in the agencies, the networks and in common within the  Groupe in order to promote Diversity is meant to fight against discrimination  and encourage the establishment of multicultural teams, based on a sole crite- rion: competence. This is a daily task, a permanent one. The Groupe continues  to focus its efforts on its seven criteria, without limitation: they simply make  up the most important areas of concentration. Action plans are implemented  at local levels (country, city, agency). Some examples follow: -  In the US, under the impetus of the Groupe Diversity Council which includes  the network HR Managers and their Diversity managers, several joint actions  were continued: joint participation in initiatives such as Ad Color, the AAF  (American Advertising Federation,) the Most Promising Minority Student, the  Black Enterprise Women of Power Summit, the W.A.T.E.R Coalition Session, the  GLADD Media Awards, and different initiatives with universities and schools.  At the same time, networks and agencies continue to deploy their own spe- cific actions. In 2011, the managers of ZenithOptimedia and Saatchi & Saatchi  were cited by the profession for their approach to Diversity & Inclusion, in  their agencies and in projects with their clients; -  In France, an overall approach was undertaken on the initiative of Frances HR  Division, supported by the networks and agencies. This begins with a prelimi- nary internal analysis of the issues and needs, then by establishing a plan of  action meant to increase the opportunities for greater diversity in the teams.  Some agencies have also begun think tanks and working sessions to encou- rage greater diversity among talents.  GRI LA14   FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.3  iSo 26000 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4  Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee   category.   Balance of Compensation by Gender In addition to the principles of equality which are widely support- ed and shared within the Groupe, it is really the facts that count.  HR teams are working on a grid to analyze and follow this balance  more accurately, intended to yield a more precise breakdown. The  major difficulty at this time is the uncertain comparability due to  the great number of job titles. This work is underpinned by joint  computer tools used in conjunction with ERP. FocuS Compensation, Incentives and employee share  ownership  Compensation and Incentives (see 2011 Registration Document, p.57   to 71). - All information concerning the terms and conditions of compensation of  Groupe senior management is reported in great detail in the Registration  Document. Groupe employees have labor contracts which set out their  job descriptions, responsibilities and terms of compensation (fixed and  variable, if applicable). These contracts are all subject to local laws and  labor regulations. - Employee shareholding: The various stock option plans for subscribing  or acquiring stock are described in the 2011 Registration Document   (pp. 162 to 174). - The Groupe Free Shares Plan announced in 2009 (awarding 50 shares  to each employee) was broadly rolled out at end 2011, reaching over  two thirds of Groupe employees. When completed, this plan will likely  represent about 1% of the share capital. (For the Groupe shareholding  structure, see the 2011 Registration Document, pp. 215 to 219).  15 Chapter 2  sociETY  16 2.1 culTural / communiTY iSSuES 2.1.1 Community   Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and prac- tices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on  communities, including entering, operating and exiting.   The Groupes employees take a genuine interest in the  activities of their local communities. Indeed, working  with local people is one of the keys to success. Interest  in these projects and initiatives runs particularly deep  among the younger generations, and involvement is  mainly in the form of pro bono campaigns and voluntary  work, with the agencies deciding what causes they wish  to support.   Decisions regarding which causes to support are taken  by the CEO(s) of each agency. This is a commitment that  must meet several objective criteria: a) the cause must be  of general public interest, b) the topic must be of real in-  terest to agency staff, and c) the agency must be capable  of successfully completing this project just as with its  usual clients and on the basis of its general workload.   In recent years, economic restrictions have obliged a lot of  agencies to reduce the number of commitments they under- take in order to focus more on a major project each year. FocuS Pro bono campaigns  It is important to bear in mind that work for a pro bono client is of  the same quality and intensity as work for any other client. In the  course of its assignment, the agency will be equally demanding of  itself. In most cases, there is no charge for these campaigns and  the time and work put in and creative production are donated to the  institution, association or organization in question. Only technical  costs are borne by the advertiser. Sometimes the agency may re- ceive some form of lump sum compensation, though this is always  symbolic and therefore very small. Overall, there were fewer pro bono campaigns in 2011 (though the  output and achievements were more substantial) and the financial  valuation was down. The Groupe is continuing its detailed analy- sis of the criteria specific to this type of assignment in order to  improve its consistency and fairness in selecting projects. Involve- ment in pro bono campaigns may also entail what certain countries  refer to as skills-based sponsorship which consists in temporarily  releasing employees to contribute their skills to a project or cause.  This enables even greater involvement in projects, particularly dur- ing the preparatory and/or launch phase, as well as a transfer of  know-how. In this way, the approach adds value for both parties. GRI SO1   FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 1 ISO 26000 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7, 6.6.7 This chapter collates a whole series of initiatives, relationships and projects constituting a multifaceted view   of the Groupes numerous activities carried out in conjunction with an ever-increasing number of partners  from civil society. The Groupe, its networks and all its agencies play a part in a very large number of ways that have a positive  impact on what is commonly known as community life or civil society. The very large number of highly  diversified undertakings is a good reflection on the Groupes culture of sharing. As it has become very  difficult to enumerate every aspect of this involvement, this year we have chosen once again to structure  our approach around a small number of important themes. Throughout this chapter, the narrative is one of  strong commitment on the part of different categories of staff at all levels of hierarchy. The final picture, that  some may see as a kaleidoscopic, is that of a group whose involvement in society in general is an everyday  reality. Not only is this not new to Publicis Groupe, it is part of our corporate culture: so, despite the complex  economic situation, playing our part in society is constantly at the forefront of our minds. In fact, this is one  of the challenges the agencies are faced with, i.e. how to maintain our involvement at the same level despite  dwindling resources? Our policy consists in encouraging our people to play an active part in society. Our goal is, as always, to act efficiently, as social and economic players acknowledged for our commitment.  17 child protection: Leo Burnett USA/Arc (US) World Strongest Girl - Girl  Scouts of Greater Chicago & Northwest Indiana; Hanmer MSL (India) Pu- blic Relations - Childline India Foundation; Leo Burnett USA/Arc (US) Up- side Down - The Cradle; ZenithOptimedia (Australia) Bequests - Unicef;  Fallon Minneapolis (US) Beat the Odds - Childrens Defense Fund; MSL  (Italy) A Grain of Happiness - Artsana; Digitas Boston (US) Marketing Vi- deo - Cradles to Crayons.  Society: Saatchi & Saatchi New York (US) McGruff.org/ McGruff Comic Book  – National Crime Prevention Council (NCPC); Publicis Mexico (Mexico)  Paralife - Fundacin Paralife Mxico, A.C.; JKL (Sweden) Campaign –  Paralympics; Rosetta (US) Lust for Better Meat – Greenhouse; BBR Saatchi  & Saatchi (Israel) Blood Relations – The Impossible Brief. healthcare – in General: Nazca Saatchi & Saatchi (Mexique) 065  Campaign – American Red Cross; Publicis London (UK) iHobo – DePaul;  Digitas Boston (US) MGH 100 – Massachusetts General Hospital 100;  ZenithMedia (Spain) Open the Door to Rehab – Mesa de Participacin  Social (90 social organizations); Saatchi & Saatchi X (UK) Meals on  Wheels – Hairy Bikers / Meals on Wheels; Publicis Healthware International  (Italy) Douala Project – The African Medical Network.   health – Blood donation: Publicis Brasil (Brasil) Team Pro-Blood – Fundao  Pr-sangue; SMG (India) Your Blood Counts – Blood Banks. Fight against drug abuse: Saatchi & Saatchi Johannesburg (South Africa)  Vivienne – Chabbad Addiction Rehabilitation Centre; Publicis New York  (USA) Drugs are Bad, Joint, Saved, Conversation, Family Portraits –  DrugFree Org; Publicis Consultants (France) If You Hold Someone Close,  Hold Them Back – Scurit Routire / Road Safety. cancer prevention: Publicis Hal Riney (US) Hope – City of Hope; Starcom  (Mexico) Cancer – Avon; Saatchi & Saatchi Healthcare Innovations AND  Optimedia (US) 20th Anniversary Promotion – Living Beyond Breast  Cancer (LBBC). aidS prevention: Saatchi & Saatchi Cape Town (South Africa) AIDS – Unicef; Saatchi & Saatchi Poland (Poland) Campaign for World Aids Day  and 1% – Polish Red Cross. other Specific illness: Leo Burnett (China) The Loneliness of Autism –  Guangzhou Yangai Special Children Parent Club; Starcom (Australia) CBD  Golf Escape and the Cerebral Palsy Challenge – Cerebral Palsy Alliance;  Publicis Consultants (France) Campaign – Institut du Cerveau et de la  Molle Epinire(ICM). Environment: Leo Burnett AND Starcom (Sydney) Earth Hour – World  Wildlife Federation; Saatchi & Saatchi Los Angeles (US) Animals in  Armor – Surfrider Foundation; Genedigi (China) E12 Green DIY –  Three Leaf Landscaping, LLC; Leo Burnett USA/Arc (US) Design for a  Living World – The Nature Conservancy; MSL (Singapore) Campaign  – Conservation International Singapore; Schwartz MSL San Francisco  (US) 50th Anniversary – Save the Bay.      18 FocuS Volunteer work – US  The following are examples of volunteer work carried out in the US. Similar  work is performed in all countries in which the Groupe has operations, and  it is local management that decides what areas the agencies work in. leo Burnett - Ronald McDonald House, Ganbare Nippon, Anti-Cruelty  Society, the Off the Street Club and Chicago Cares (Chicago), Workshop  Bring Your Kid to Work Day (Chicago), Give Back Day (Chicago), Japan  Earthquakes and Pacific Tsunami Fund (Chicago), All American Basketball  Game (Chicago), Table Tennis Tournament (Chicago), International Charter  Elementary School-Irving Park Campus, Junior Achievement (Chicago). Saatchi & Saatchi - Ad Futures Competition (New York), Pay it Forward  (New York), True Blue (New York), Good Day-Habitat for Humanity,  Tree People, Salvation Army, Childrens Institute, Childrens Lifesaving  Foundation Boxer Rescue, Seal Beach Animal Shelter, Madrona Marsh,   LA Food Bank, Surfrider Foundation, Ronald McDonald House, Free Arts  (Los Angeles), Team One Day of Good, 2011 AIDS Walk (Los Angeles),   Operation Backpack (New York), Philippines Flood Relief, You Gotta   Believe (New York). kaplan Thaler Group - Toys for Tots, NY Cares Coat Drive (New York), Com- munity Service Day. Fallon - Adopt a Family, One Heartland, GenerosiTREE, Childrens Defense  Fund Banquet, Fallonthropy Project: Feed My Starving Children, Childrens  Hospital of MN, Battle Creek Elementary School, Gunflint Green Up, and Art  Buddies. vivaki - Womens Cancer Program (Chicago), Sailing Heritage Society  (Seattle), Volunteers of America (Detroit), Moustache March (New York,  Chicago, Detroit, Seattle), Communities that Care (Chicago), American  Heart Association (Chicago), Primo Center for Women & Children (Chica- go), Greening of Detroit (Detroit), Clean up Montrose Beach (Chicago),  West Side Baby (Seattle). digitas - Henry Street Settlement (New York), Off the Street Club (Chicago),  Pets Are Worth Saving, Start Heart Walk, Hearts in Action, Mill River  Collaborative, The Nicholas House, Junior Achievement of New York (New  York).  Starcom - Christopher House (Chicago), Liquid Thread Chicago/ Off the  Street Club (Chicago). Zenithoptimedia - Autism Speaks, My Story, ZO Gives Back. publicis healthcare communications Group - Bristol Youth Center, Red  Cross Donation, Capital Health NICU, Lackawanna County Community   Fundraiser. mSlGroup - Warehouse Repack Program, City Harvest (New York), NY  Cares (New York), Brown University- Kekst Media Relations Advisory  Council, New York Youth Symphony (New York), Be:CAUSE (New York),  Atlantic Street Center (Seattle), Atlanta Humane Society (Atlanta), Atlanta  Tipoff Club (Atlanta).  FocuS Relationships with schools and universities   Our agencies have long-established and close ties with schools and uni- versities in our sector of business. As a result of the tighter economic  situation, the agencies have had to focus their efforts on the programs  and schools they see as priorities. And because our businesses are evol- ving very rapidly, with new players and challenges in the field of training,  our agencies are also establishing new relationships and ties. These  include:   Educational contributions through teaching, practical case studies,  mentoring and other expert involvement: cole des Hautes tudes  Commerciales de Paris (France), LInstitut dtudes politiques de  Paris (France), New York University (US), London Business School  (UK), Judge Business School, (Cambridge, UK), University of Illinois  Urbana-Champaign – Advertising School (US), ESSEC Business School  (Singapore), National University of Singapore (Singapore), Peoples  University (China), Shanghai Foreign Language University (China),  Phoenix High School (UK), Fulham Cross School (UK), Henry Compton  Schools (UK), Haverstock School (UK), The Central University for  Nationalities (China), Oklahoma State University – Okmulgee (US),  Savannah College of Art & Design (US), Escuela Europea de Direcciony  Empresa (Spain), School of Communication Arts (UK), Warsaw School  of Economics (Poland), PohChang Academy of Arts (Thailand),  University of Minnesota (US), Carlson School of Management (US),  Virginia Commonwealth University (US), Syracuse University  (US), Gesamtverband Kommunikationsagenturen (Germany),  Westdeutsche Akedemie fr Kommunikation (Germany), Universitt  Koblenz-Landau (Germany), HMKW Hochschule fr Medien (Germany),  Kommunikation und Wirtschaft (Germany), University of Applied  Sciences (Germany), Guizhou village school (China), Hangzhou Normal  University (China), Hsih-hsin University (Taiwan), etc.   Welcome/Discovery Sessions and meetings within our agencies,  including Career fair for Harvard University (US), University of  Rochester (US), University of Georgia (US), Clarke-Atlanta University  (US), Syracuse University (US); Scholarships for FH Dsseldorf  (Germany), Universitt zu Kln(Germany), HS Rhein-Main (Germany),  Goethe Universitt Frankfurt (Germany), Rheinische Fachhochschule  Kln (Germany); Awards for Nebrija (Spain), EAE Business School  (Spain), ESIC Business & Marketing School (Spain); Charity project held  for Peking University (China); Lectures or speeches for University of  Brussels (Belgium); the Gail Yacula Award for Ontario College of Art and  Design(Canada); Auckland Business School (New Zealand); The City  University of New York (US); Creative Circus(US), Minneapolis College  of Art and Design(US), Portfolio Center (US); Open days for University  of Paris (France), Northwestern University (US), Greenwich University  (UK), Hunan Institute of Science and Technology (China), Accademia di  Comunicazione (Italy), European Institute of Design (Italy), Universit  Cattolica del Sacro Cuore (Italy), Stockholm School of Economics  (Sweden), Lund University (Sweden), Gothenburg University (Sweden),  Copenhagen Business School (Denmark), Norwegian Business School  (Norway), VU University of Amsterdam (Netherlands), Universit di  Lingue e Comunicazione (Italy), etc.   Internship programs with, in addition to the above-mentioned  schools and universities, cole des Hautes tudes Commerciales  de Paris (France), cole Suprieure des Sciences conomiques  et Commerciales (France), LInstitut dtudes politiques de Paris  (France), Penn State University (US), Fudan University (China),  Communication University of China (China), Boston University (US),  Boston College (US), Bentley University (US), Vanderbilt University  (US), Ecole suprieure de communication et de publicit (France),  Lcole des mtiers de la communication (France), Northeastern   19 University (US), Buckinghamshire New University (UK), Niels Brock  Business School (Denmark), BA Ravensburg (Germany), Complutense  de Madrid (Spain), Rey Juan Carlos I (Spain), Abat Oliba (Spain), Ramn  Llull (Spain), UNED (Spain), Autonma (Spain), Valladolid (Spain),  Alcal de Henares Escola Superior (Spain), VCU – Brand Center (US),  Universidad Argentina de la Empresa (Argintina), Brigham Young  University (US), Miami Ad School (US and Europe), Pontifical Catholic  University of Argentina (Argintina), Zeppelin University Friedrichshafen  (Germany), Lomonosov Moscow State University (Russia), State  Management University (Russia), College for Creative Studies (US),  Indiana University (US), University of Missouri (US), Howard University  (US), Sydney University (Australia), Charles Sturt University-School of  Communication and Creative Industries (Australia), Royal Melbourne  Institute of Technology (Australia), Baruch University (US), City College  of New York (US), Fashion Institute of Technology (US), West Herts  College (UK), Xerox Information Centre (India), Symbiosis Institute of  Media & Communication (India), Pune & Blore (India), Indira Institute  (India), Institute of Business Management (India), Indian Institute of  Mass Communication (India), University of Toronto (Canada), American  University of Dubai (UAE), American University of Beirut (Lebanon),  Academie Libanaise des Beaux Arts (Lebanon), etc. FocuS Participation in professional organizations  Over and beyond the traditional activities that our agency managers natu- rally pursue within professional and sectoral organizations, it is interest- ing to observe that shared working spaces and multiparty consultation  groups are becoming increasingly numerous and active. These constitute  an important opportunity to work more closely alongside representatives  of the various stakeholders. The following are mentioned as examples of  such cooperation: - in the US, the working group that informally brings together advertisers  (ANA: Association of National Advertisers), agencies (4As: American Asso- ciation of Advertising Agencies), and experts from numerous walks of life  to discuss matters relating to sustainable development and the impact of  communications campaigns on the environment; - in France, after an initial three-year period of work, a new phase of  cooperation has begun on the European program aimed at educating  children in advertising. This program, called Media Smart, brings togeth- er advertisers, agency professionals, as well as representatives of the  media, teachers, consumer organizations, government authorities and  oversight bodies; - in China, publication in 2011 of China Responsible Marketing Code,  the first national code of good conduct in communications and adver- tising. Like a lot of local codes, this was inspired by the international  code known as the Consolidated ICC Code on Advertising and Marketing  Communication Practice. This publication brought together the different  stakeholders in China, including national and international advertisers,  teachers and professionals from a very wide variety of communications  businesses.  2.1.2 Corruption   Percentage and total number of strategic business units  analyzed for risks related to corruption.   There is a Gifts and Inducements chapter in Janus, our Code of  conduct, which refers very clearly to the issue of gifts and dealings dee- med inappropriate or unethical, whether with suppliers or clients. Percentage of employees trained in organizations anti-  corruption policies and procedures.   One of the ongoing tasks assigned to the Audit and Internal Control de- partment is to systematically remind local managers of the rules gover- ning the prevention and fight against corruption every time they audit  an agency. In addition to local legal and regulatory requirements, the  Groupes strict principles are emphasized (see Janus, Code of conduct,  and the chapters entitled Gifts and Inducements and Improper   Payments). GRI SO4     ISO 26000 6.6, 6.6.3 Measures taken in response to incidents of corruption.   A case of indirect fraud was handled in 2011. The Leo Burnett agency  in Athens (Greece) was defrauded by Alter TV, aided and abetted by the  majority of the advertising agencies in Greece. This fraudulent action  seriously jeopardized the agencys balance sheet by creating financial  obligations to third parties whilst Alter TV, the real counterparty on these  commitments, had to file for bankruptcy. The damage caused had a   profound effect on the agencys creditworthiness and business activity,  which ultimately led the agency to file for bankruptcy. GRI SO2  GLObAL COmPACt Principle 10   ISO 26000 6.6, 6.6.3 GRI SO3     ISO 26000 6.6, 6.6.3  20 2.1.3 Public policy   Public policy positions and participation in public policy  development and lobbying.    e-G8 Forum: May 2011 saw the first staging of an e-G8 Forum in Paris.  This forum was attended by over 1,500 global deciders in the digital  sector (Google, Facebook, Yahoo!, Microsoft, Orange, Vivendi, Cap Gemini,  eBay, Alcatel-Lucent, Eutelsat...). Organized by Publicis Groupe under  the auspices of the French presidency of the G8, this event enabled  professionals and players from over 30 countries to exchange points  of view and share experience around core themes such as Internet and  economic growth, Internet in society, the Internet of the future, intellec- tual property in the era of Internet, innovations and new applications, or  the transformation of our world. There were also numerous workshops  chaired by experts with a view to comparing prospective analyses and  organizing discussions. These two days of intensive work had a catalytic effect, leading to a  number of concrete proposals presented by a delegation of CEOs to  the G8 Heads of State. The goal of these proposals was to raise awa- reness concerning the new challenges and opportunities of the digital  revolution. This was achieved by putting into perspective the structur-  al changes the digital era has brought about and will continue to bring  about, thus highlighting the benefits for one and all without overlook- ing the questions that will have to be answered, particularly from a  political and global point of view. On the subject of Internet, making its first appearance on a G8  agenda, the Heads of State concluded that ... For our citizens, Inter- net is a unique educational tool and source of information; as such,  it helps promote freedom, democracy and human rights. Internet  fosters new forms of economic activity and stimulates efficiency,  competitiveness and economic growth. Public authorities, the pri- vate sector, users and other players all have a role to play in creat- ing an environment that is conducive to balanced growth of Inter- net.. We have agreed on a number of founding principles, such as  freedom, peoples right to privacy and intellectual property, multi- actor governance, cyber-security and protection against criminal  activity. These principles are the very basis upon which Internet  has established its strength and its success... The e-G8 Forum has  made a precious contribution to this debate.   One of the characteristic features of Publicis Groupe is that it refuses  to let its agencies work on partisan campaigns, or for a political  party, sect or ideological organization spreading propaganda. This  feature is included in our values (see Janus, the Code of conduct),  which helps ensure that peoples ideas and commitments are respec- ted. The Groupe fully respects personal and individual positions and  commitments on the part of its employees within organizations and  associations.   The Groupe is very civic-minded and takes part, alongside represen- tatives of civil society, in a large number of working groups focusing  mainly on economic and social issues. This involvement is usually at  local level and is always fully transparent. The Groupe considers that this  type of involvement is one way of taking part as citizens in the society  to which we belong. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to  political parties, politicians or related institutions, by  country.    The Groupes values (see Janus) clearly state the principle of refusing  to work for partisan campaigns, a political party, sect or any ideological  organization spreading propaganda. This does not prohibit managers or  employees from making individual commitments within organizations of  a political nature, provided the distinction between private and business  activities is clear and unambiguous. 2.1.4 Anti-competitive behavior   Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior,  anti-trust and monopoly practices, and their outcome.    The Groupe has not been party to any legal action for monopoly practices  or for failure to comply with antitrust laws. 2.1.5 Compliance   Monetary value of significant fines and total number of  non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and  regulations.   The Groupe did not incur any legal or administrative sanctions for   non-compliance with laws and regulations. GRI SO5     ISO 26000 6.6, 6.6.4, 6.8.3 GRI SO6     ISO 26000 6.6, 6.6.4, 6.8.3 GRI SO7     ISO 26000 6.6, 6.6.5, 6.6.7 GRI SO8     ISO 26000 6.6, 6.6.7, 6.8.7  21 Chapter 3  GoVERNaNcE   & EcoNoMics  22 This chapter includes two sections of the GRI chart and should be read in conjunction with the 2011 Registration  Document (accessible at www.publicisgroupe.com) which includes detailed information on the following:  Presentation of the Groupes activities,  Corporate governance (Publicis Groupe is a company with a Supervisory Board and a Management Board),  Detailed review of the 2011 financial period, including consolidated and parent company financial statements,  Information about the company and its capital. The Groupe will thus rely on the fact that these documents complete one another, in order to avoid repetition and  duplication.  Given the Groupes high level of internal and external growth in recent years, one of the big challenges  is to integrate all these entities and teams while adjusting and modifying the Groupes organization  accordingly, and ensuring that the operating rules, regulations and ethics are fully understood and  fully complied with everywhere. With networks and presence in over 100 countries, Publicis Groupe  comprises over 1,200 legal entities including 800 active business units, and it is this organizational  granularity that makes the Groupe both strong and agile. Operational consistency is articulated around Janus,  our code of ethics. Janus contains the Code of Conduct, the standards of conduct and behavior that apply to   one and all, and in particular to certain management functions (the public part of Janus can be accessed at  www.publicisgroupe.com). Janus is a compilation of all the rules and regulations governing the Groupes internal  operations, the responsibilities of the various parties involved the monitoring and control measures as well as the  rules on how to conduct business and a whole series of operational procedures. Our policy is, as always, to conduct our business in an ethical and profitable way, our goal being to ensure the  company is operated in a responsible and transparent manner. The Groupe considers its role as a social and economic player from a global point of view, using a 360 approach.   In our digital era, the Groupes reasoning is systemic in order to include the challenges facing its main stakeholders.  Its rationale is thus both local and global. PANTONE 871 C PANTONE 4975 C Employees Clients Suppliers Shareholders Partners  State institutions (Administrations /  Governments, Ministries, local and   regional authorities) Professional and Trade organizations Inter-professional organizations   (local / national / international) Consumers / Citizens Representative organizations NGOs, institutions such as Foundations or other  Associations defending a cause Universities and schools Students and teachers Authorities Self-regulation bodies  23 3.1 EconomicS 3.1.1 Economic performance   Direct economic value generated and distributed, includ- ing revenues, operating costs, employee compensation,  donations and other community investments, retained  earnings and payments to capital providers and govern- ments. See the 2011 Registration Document (Chap.1, p.6 and Chap.4, p.98) Key figures for 2011 revenue: 5,816 million euro operating margin: 931 million euro operating income: 914 million euro net income: 600 million euro personnel expenses: 3,615 million euro other expenses: 1,167 million euro impairment: 103 million euro   Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for  the companys activities due to climate change.   Though its business as provider of intellectual services does  not position it among the biggest producers of greenhouse  gases, the Groupe has every intention of assuming its re- sponsibilities as a company.   Travel continues to be the main cause of greenhouse gas  emissions, but certain trips are indispensable. For several  years now, the Groupe has been implementing a plan to ins- tall 5 Here and There rooms, large telepresence facilities  that can simultaneously connect five cities by teleconfe- rence. Over the last 18 months, the emphasis has shifted to  smaller facilities and the Groupe now boasts 18 small facili- ties in addition to its 5 large telepresence rooms.   These facilities are used by staff and clients alike. Whilst they  are being used more and more frequently, it is too early to  assess the benefits by comparison with the expectations of  more intensive use. The results to date are very encouraging  in the case of trans-Atlantic destinations and within the larger  regions, and include a substantial decrease in the number of  flights, without overlooking the personal comfort of users who  are spared the fatigue and other inconveniences of air travel.   Coverage of the organizations defined benefit plan obliga- tions.   Detailed information relating to the arrangements made to  cover pension schemes is set forth in the 2011 Registration  Document (see Chap.4 pp.139 to 143).   Significant financial assistance received from govern- ment.   The Groupe did not receive any direct or indirect financial  assistance from government. 3.1.2 market presence   Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to  local minimum wage at significant locations of operation.   The advertising market is highly competitive with a battle  waged for talent and a structurally high level of staff turn- over. Employees are relatively young, with higher educa- tion degrees. The notion of minimum wage would therefore  appear to lack relevance.   In the vast majority of cases, wages offered to employees  are above the local minimum standards set by law (when  such a law exists). The Groupe carries out very little stand- ardized production, but does offer a vast array of intellec- tual services. It is therefore local context that determines  the range of compensation.   Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally- based suppliers at significant locations of operation. GRI EC1   FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 1.8 ISO 26000 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 GRI EC2     ISO 26000 6.5.5 GRI EC3       GRI EC4       GRI EC5     ISO 26000 6.4.4, 6.8 GRI EC6     ISO 26000 6.6.6, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7  24   All our agencies deal with a large number of local suppliers  throughout the year. We deal with local partners (including  the media) when communicating on behalf of our clients.  We seek out the best combination of quality and price, but  also keep an eye on choice and diversity. Moreover, the  Groupe takes great care not to create situations of economic  dependence in the case of highly repetitive services (e.g.  printing).   The Shared Services Centers (Re:Sources) have local   Procurement Managers who follow up relations with local  suppliers but also with suppliers with whom we have global  agreements. These global agreements are drawn up and  entered into by the Groupe Procurement Department. All  these large-scale agreements include CSR-related criteria  (Corporate Social Responsibility). The Groupe has drawn  up a charter entitled Responsible Procurement Charter  as well as the Publicis Groupe Procurement CSR Ques- tionnaire which is gradually being applied to local procu- rement. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior manage- ment hired from the local community at significant locations  of operation.   Approximately 90% of our agency managers are locals (or  have been living in the region for a very long time). Staff is  also mainly local. The cultural dimension is a fundamental  part of our activities, and a good understanding of local eco- nomic, social and cultural issues is essential for our commu- nications campaigns to be efficient. In our clients eyes, it is  crucial that we share the cultural references of the country  or region.   For many years now we have recruited employees of numer- ous different nationalities, believing that the multicultural  approach not only enhances our work but is a key factor to  success. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and  services provided primarily for public benefit through com- mercial, in-kind or pro bono engagement.   In providing intellectual services, Publicis Groupe is not   involved in infrastructure investment or the provision of   services for public benefit. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic  impacts, including the extent of impacts. (See Registration Document, Chap.4, p.11 et seq.)   Publicis Groupe is one of the worlds foremost companies in  the communications sector, and is ranked 3rd.   One of its major challenges has always been to anticipate  market developments and consumer behavior in order to  be able to provide high quality service to its clients (firms,  brands, institutions, services ...) at all times, and to enable  them to reap the benefits of trends generating progress,  growth and savings.   The Groupe has thus kept abreast of the changing world of  media which has been completely transformed by the frag- mentation of audiences, the multiplication and subsequent  converging of screens, the extraordinary development of  digital technology driven by interactive and mobile com- munications, and the new types of relationships gathering  pace on the social media that have emerged from these  technological innovations.   Given the proliferation of new channels of communica- tion and content, but also the ever-increasing demands of  consumer-citizens, the relationship between consumers,  brands and companies must be managed in a more profes- sional, rigorous and technical manner with greater creati- vity and originality. The role of our professionals has thus  become more essential than ever before, as a result of  which the value of a good, impactful communications cam- paign is now clearly acknowledged.   As for the Groupe itself, as an employer, its direct social  and economic impact is that of a multinational company  employing nearly 54,000 people in some 100 countries. GRI EC7     ISO 26000 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 GRI EC8     ISO 26000 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, 6.8.5,   6.8.6, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 GRI EC9     ISO 26000 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.6.7, 6.7.8,  6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 6.8.9  25 3.2 producT rESponSiBiliTY   (includinG SErvicES) 3.2.1 Consumer health and safety   Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of   products and services are assessed for improvement.   The Groupes business is to provide intellectual services.  The notion of impact on health has therefore been as- sessed in the light of the business activities carried out by  the Groupes employees.   The most significant impacts are related to human and  psychosocial risks, particularly with regard to employees  work-life balance.   The Groupes businesses are mainly driven by customer  satisfaction. The drawing up of projects is a very intensive  phase, and successful completion of communications  campaigns requires a lot of work and commitment. Time  management is therefore quite challenging, even more so  with digital tools. The latter have the particularity of consi- derably improving workflow (swifter execution, greater flui- dity), and yet, at the same time, these same tools solicit  employees in numerous ways that make great demands  on concentration. The digital revolution has led communi- cations agencies to review and question the way they plan  to operate, but also to be careful about the degree of effort  they demand of employees.  Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regula- tions and voluntary codes concerning health and safety  impacts of products and services by type of outcomes.   Publicis Groupe did not record any incident of non-com- pliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning  health and safety impacts. 3.2.2 Products and services labeling   Type of product and service information required by proce- dures, and percentage of significant products and services  subject to such information requirements. information   To follow up on the example commented in the 2010 CSR  Report, here is a progress report on the cooperative and  inter-professional discussions on OBA (Online Behavio- ral Advertising). Readers should be reminded that this  relates to a certain type of digital advertising, where  personal browsing data can be used by third parties.   This work, which began in 2009 under the strong  leadership of the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC),  closely monitored progress made in this area in Europe,  Canada and a number of other countries. On the issue  of self-regulation in the US, the challenge for 2011 was  to arrive at a set of rules and good practices around the  Opt-In – Opt-Out rule and the icon to be displayed by  every website carrying out OBA. VivaKi, which is very  involved in this work, made a major contribution to this  collaborative undertaking and brought together all the  parties concerned (see the 2010 CSR Report, p. 37). - Self-regulation produced 7 fundamental principles  aimed at guaranteeing the protection of personal data,  namely: easily accessible consumer control of personal  data, transparency of the system for web users, freedom   to exercise control over data, security of data protection  systems, easy access and updating possibilities, pro- tection of sensitive data (children, healthcare, finance,  etc..), accountability regarding compliance. These prin- ciples were included in the conclusions of the White  Houses Privacy Report in early 2012. - in the case of VivaKi, which already has processes in  place with its clients and partners, the goal was to bolster  compliance with these principles while focusing on three  facets: help clients apply the do-not-track option (icon)  for which they are directly accountable, ensure that the  supplier of the Opt-In – Opt-Out options has the necessary  skills and qualities, and organize in-house tracking within  the agency, with the help of an ad hoc partner (Evidon or  other duly approved provider) to ensure compliance.   Education   The Groupe is involved in the European educational program  called Media Smart, of which there are variations in a num- ber of countries (known as Pub Malin in France). The goal is to teach young schoolchildren to decipher ad- vertising, by providing teachers with comprehensive and  neutral educational toolkits. The main emphasis is on 8-11  year olds. The Groupe has been taking part in this program  for three years already. In 2011, given the success of the  program – which has been acclaimed by teachers, parents  and children – the decision was taken to extend this pro- gram to older children (11-14 year olds). The Groupe signed  GRI PR1     ISO 26000 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5 GRI PR2     ISO 26000 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5 GRI PR3     ISO 26000 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.9  26 up for another three-year commitment to include both age  groups. (This program brings together advertisers, communica- tions agencies, media and numerous other stakeholders  such as oversight bodies, public authorities, representa- tives of consumer organizations and parent associations,  and is a good example of the collaborative approach to  which the Groupe attaches great importance). Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regula- tions and voluntary codes concerning product and service  information and labeling, by type of outcomes.   Publicis Groupe did not experience any case of non-compliance  with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product  and service information. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of  surveys measuring customer satisfaction.   In 2011, Publicis Groupe conducted nearly 3,750 customer  surveys.   Customer satisfaction surveys are carried out regu- larly, generally once a year, and the structure of these  surveys is specific to each network or agency. Dif- ferent types of surveys may be conducted from time  to time, e.g. annual business reviews, and/or project  reviews. This will depend on what was initially agreed  with the customer. 3.2.3 Communications – marketing Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary  codes related to marketing communications, including adver- tising, promotion and sponsorship.   The Groupe took part in the finalizing of the latest version  of the Consolidated ICC Code on Advertising and Market- ing Communication Practice, published in September  2011 (www.iccwbo.org). This Code continues to be the  communications sectors reference in self-regulation as  well as inspiring a number of national codes. The new edi- tion includes substantial updates to chapters D (Digital  Interactive Media applications and challenges) and E (En- vironmental Claims in Marketing Communications), aimed  at avoiding greenwashing and abusive or misleading envi- ronmental claims.   In most of the countries in which the Groupe is well esta- blished, the CEOs and agency managers contribute to local  professional organizations to help promote the highest  standards at local level. As part of its endeavor to roll out ISO 26000, the new interna- tional standard (no certification) on the Social Responsibility  of organizations, Publicis Groupe took part in the sectoral  working group on Communications. This group was initi-  ated in 2009 in France, under the leadership of AFNOR, the  French national standards organization (see www.afnor.org/ metiers/normalisation/iso-26000/observatoire-francais-de- l-iso-26000). The characteristic feature of this new standard, which supple- ments other reference systems, is that it combines two dimen- sions: on the one hand, the seven central issues (governance,  human rights, working conditions and relations, the environ- ment, good business practices, consumer and society issues,  with the cross-cutting economic dimension), and on the other  hand, the identification of and dialog with stakeholders. GRI PR4     ISO 26000 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 GRI PR5     ISO 26000 6.7, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.8, 6.7.9 2009* 2010 2011 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 2,000 3,000 3,750 * Reduced scope (85%) GRI PR6     ISO 26000 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.6, 6.7.9  27 This working group included advertisers, agencies, pro- fessional bodies representing the different communi- cations businesses, oversight and regulatory authori- ties, NGOs, representatives of consumer associations. It  worked on a simple issue: How to apply this standard to  a given sector in concrete terms? What is its significance  for the various parties involved? How should the priorities  be articulated? This collaborative exercise was particularly interesting, with  a great wealth of ideas, exchanges with contrasting opinions,  discussions, but always with the common goal of drafting a  practical guide to serve professionals in the sector. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regula- tions and voluntary codes concerning marketing communi- cations, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship,  by type of outcomes.    In 2011, very few of the Groupes agencies had any inci- dents of non-compliance to deplore. In the Groupes line of  business, this can lead to an opinion or notification from  the oversight authorities or self-regulation bodies. 3.2.4 Customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches  of customer privacy and losses of customer data.   There were no claims filed against Publicis for breach of pri- vacy or loss of customer data. 3.2.5 Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with  laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of pro- ducts and services.   Publicis Groupe was not fined for any instance of non-compliance  with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use  of its products and services. GRI PR7     ISO 26000 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 GRI PR8     ISO 26000 6.7, 6.7.7 GRI PR9     ISO 26000 6.7, 6.7.6, 6.7.7  28 Chapter 4  ENViRoNMENT  29 4.1 EnvironmEnT 4.1.1 materials   Materials used by weight or volume. Our consumption is measured using the following criteria:   Workstations: Desk computers, laptops, tablets, copiers:  66,754 machines (renewed about every three years);   Paper: Volumes consumed: 1,910 tons (based on the first  10 categories of paper used: a larger scope than in 2009  and 2010). These figures increase mechanically due to the  higher number of people working, despite drastic efforts to  reduce consumption in certain entities. Percentage of materials used that are recycled input mate- rials.   We are steadily increasing our recycled input materials – espe- cially paper. This is a difficult assessment for us to make because  of the differences among certifications and standards used in dif- ferent countries. We estimate the volume of paper from certified  environment-friendly sources (for our internal use) at less than  1,000 tons. This indicator, however, is still less than perfect.  GRI EN1 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 8 FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.1 ISO 26000 6.5, 6.5.4 GRI EN2 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 8 FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.1 ISO 26000 6.5, 6.5.4 2011 was the third year of a complex task: calculating the carbon footprint for the entire Groupe. In addition to  producing a global overview of the Groupes total environmental impact, it also gives more accurate snapshots  on a country-by-country and unit-by-unit basis. These three years of calculating the carbon footprint have  generated a precious tool for revising the Groupes environmental policies, with precise figures for objectives.  The Groupe still intends to bring its performance in line with the 20-20-20* target.  Recognition is in order for the progress already made by Groupe agencies in better analyzing and tracking  their consumption and impact, and in starting to feel the beneficial effects of steps taken in the last few years.  In the first stages the Groupes attention was purposely attuned to direct impacts. There is a good deal of  leeway at this level to improve operations and modify behaviors, change practices and reduce the adverse  environmental impact of some of our activities. This is therefore an enormous long-term project, already  underway, with a vast number of solutions and options to test, find, set up and deploy.  Concurrently, we are becoming increasingly aware of indirect impacts, mainly through a better assessment  of what the Groupes agencies are accomplishing for clients. Given the number of communication campaigns  conducted every year, the stakes here are high. The task remains of defining analytical parameters and  consistent indicators, as has been done internally for Publicis Groupes direct impacts.  Our policy is still consume less, consume better (in other words, more wisely). Our target is still to reduce our direct impacts and do our part to save the environment (and ourselves). N.B. 2011 (3rd year of calculating the carbon footprint) looks like a better year due to reporting improvements. Many figures are on  the rise compared to previous years, especially considering that the Groupe continued to grow (10% greater headcount due to new  acquisitions), thus producing an automatic increase in different areas. * EU 20-20-20 strategy: reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% below 1990 levels; increase renewable energies to 20% of  total final energy consumption; increase energy efficiency by 20%.  30 4.1.2 Energy   Direct energy consumption by primary energy source.   Our total electricity consumption comes to 170,518,800 kwh,  for a 12% increase on 2010 (152, 4 49,000 kW h),   which is logical because the Groupe continued to grow   in 2011 (with 10% more employees) and the reporting  improved.   Amount of electricity from renewable energy sources:  36,127,000 kwh.   Indirect energy consumption, by primary energy source.   Given the fact that the Groupes services businesses are oper-  ated in office environments, we are not able to isolate this  indicator.  Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improve- ments. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy  based products and services.   Nearly everywhere when an agency changes location,  the Groupe tries to make it an opportunity to move into  buildings of higher environmental quality, if all cost requi- rements are met. In France, when several entities were  grouped together (Leo Burnett, Mundocom/Production   Platforms, Re:Sources and others) in Saint-Denis (Paris  area) in the Spallis building, the Groupe became a co-  tenant of an building with the HQE label (high quality   environmental standard). This type of building makes it  easier to set up permanent and daily initiatives (such as  eco-gestures) for and with the staff.   In the US, several agencies are now operating in recent or  remodeled premises. These modifications in the work envi- ronment provide an opportunity to work closely with our in- house property management teams (Re:Sources Real Estate  and Facilities) and with outside people to implement energy- saving innovations and to make better use of natural mate- rials for interior furnishings.  FocuS Energy efficiency in the US  Among the most typical initiatives are the measures taken in New York,  in the building located at Hudson & Houston Streets where Saatchi &  Saatchi and ZenithOptimedia are located, along with others. The building  owner altered the energy supply to switch to more renewable sources,  with the agreement of the tenants (our agencies, among others). Water  consumption in the building was also completely overhauled and cut  down drastically (by half!) by eliminating useless water consumption.  Heating and air conditioning units were renovated to limit energy loss  and regulate the building temperature more evenly. The plan is taking  several years to complete and is based on continuous improvement. The  building is classified LEED Gold EB (Existing Buildings).  PHCG grouped its entities together in Yardley (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania)  in a new building also classified as an LEED Gold Building (the Floral  Vale Building), which has all the qualities of buildings with the HQE label  (high quality environmental standard) according to more European  standards (such as green construction, eco-management, comfort and  sanitation). Today, the Groupe pays close attention to locating entities  together in recent buildings and, wherever possible, those complying  with the highest environmental standards, so long as the rents remain  in the range prescribed by the Groupe.  Along these lines, our internal Re:Sources people worked with building  managers in the large building on West Wacker in Chicago where Leo Burnett  and Starcom (and others) are located, in order to improve the entire  chain of electricity consumption. Over the past three years they have  cut consumption by 20% by working on three fronts: checking parts of  the building that were permanently lighted for no reason, changing bulbs  and lighting systems, and installing sensors and automatic shut-offs for  copiers and other printers overnight and on weekends. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and   reductions achieved.   A major accomplishment in 2011 was the progress in setting  up and using telepresence rooms, which saves a great deal  of airplane travel.  In addition to the 5 large rooms that linked together five  cities by the end of 2011, the Groupe added 18 smaller  rooms that link up two or three cities. This makes a total  of some 25 telepresence rooms for a total investment of   5 million euro over four years (2008-2011). GRI EN3 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 8 FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.1 ISO 26000 6.5, 6.5.4 GRI EN4 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 8 FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.1 ISO 26000 6.5, 6.5.4 GRI EN5 and EN6 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 8 FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.1 ISO 26000 6.5, 6.5.4 GRI EN7 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 8 FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.1 ISO 26000 6.5, 6.5.4  31 4.1.3 water Total water withdrawal by source.   Total water consumption stood at 800,000 cubic meters (for  some entities, calculating water consumption is difficult and  the data were corrected by adjusting locally. Collecting such  data still needs to be improved).   Installing in-house systems of filtered water for everyday  consumption is ongoing, in the continuation of the Groupes  efforts to reduce the use of plastic bottles.    Where sanitation facilities are concerned, efforts are ongoing  to deploy water-savers wherever possible.    -  Water sources significantly affected by withdrawals of  water. -  Percentage and total volume of water recycled and  reused.   As a tenant in a number of rented offices, the Groupe is  set to support measures initiated by owners or managers  to better structure water supply according to use, and to  install waste water recuperation units, wherever such meas-  ures do not entail a disproportionate increase in the rents  paid.    As concerns our own use, we do not have accurate informa- tion on these figures.  4.1.4 biodiversity   -  Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or  adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity  value outside protected areas. -  Description of significant impacts of activities, products  and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas  of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. - Habitats protected or restored. -  Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation  list species with habitats in areas affected by operations,  by level of extinction risk.   Publicis Groupe has no operating sites concerned by such  issues.   Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing  impacts on biodiversity.   The analytical study of possible options with regard to  carbon credit offsetting is continuing, as well as certain  actions initiated in this area to encourage biodiversity.  Some agencies (especially in the UK) and entities (such  as Re:Sources Costa Rica) have already taken steps at the  local levels for carbon credit offsetting; the examination of  this type of project is underway and will be evaluated in the  medium term.  4.1.5 Emissions, effluents and waste   Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight  (TeqC).   A company which provides intellectual services such as  Publicis Groupe has an impact on the environment. Cal- culating the different impacts, in particular concerning  greenhouse gases is interesting not only as an exercise in  reporting, but above all in terms of in-house learning. This  calculation also helps staff members to ingest this type of  information, for a greater awareness of impact of their wor- king activities which could – quite mistakenly – be misun- derstood as negligible.   The total for 2011 was 89,259 Teqc, i.e., 1.65 Teqc per capita.  The main sources remain unchanged, in this order: -  Travel (professional and personal) + shipping =  45,883 Teqc - Energy = 20,959 Teqc -  Fixed assets (buildings, office equipment including IT, ser- vers) = 14,842 Teqc -  Consumables (paper, cartridges, office supplies, etc.) =  7,014 Teqc - Waste = 172 Teqc GRI EN8 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 8 French NRE Law (Art. 116) Art. 2.1 ISO 26000 6.5, 6.5.4 GRI EN9 and EN10 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 8 FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.1 ISO 26000 6.5, 6.5.4 GRI EN11 / EN12 / EN13 / EN15 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 8 FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.2 ISO 26000 6.5, 6.5.6 GRI EN14 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 8 FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.2 ISO 26000 6.5, 6.5.6 GRI EN16 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 8 FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.1 ISO 26000 6.5, 6.5.5  32 FocuS Carbon Footprint            For the third year, the carbon footprint was calculated with support from  Bureau Veritas. The scope of consolidation used represents 95% of the  Groupe. The calculation is still presented according to two methods: 1-  ADEME (European method) which accounts for the greenhouse gases  produced directly and indirectly by the Groupe, according to the Kyoto  Protocol; 2-  GHG protocol (US method), which takes into account three scopes of  greenhouse gas emissions. 1-  2011 emissions – ADEME carbon footprint. Total: 89,259 Teqc i.e., 1.65  Teqc per capita (average for service companies: 1.45 to 2.4 Teqc)* 2-  Emissions 2011 - GHG Protocol. Total: 268,064 Teqc i.e., 4.9 Teqc per  capita (average for service companies: 5.3 to 8.8 Teqc)*  Observations: Internal reporting of the data necessary for calculating emissions  in 2011 was improved, but is not yet perfect. It is based on more than 850 units  of highly variable size. For some entities and certain items, data were corrected  using a weighting process based on an average by country for the Groupe. * Source: Veritas Bureau Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight  (TeqC).   Publicis Groupe has no facilities or sites concerned by this  type of emission.  Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions  achieved.   The enormous increase in digital applications developed has  led the Groupes staff, together with clients, to anticipate future  changes in this area. Certain work orders come with specific  demands to design energy-saving web sites and applications.  However, accurate assessment of the energy consumption of  digital applications remains a difficult task, because it depends  on the final support: family computer or office station (and the  type of equipment, the generation, etc.), a tablet, a mobile phone  or smart phone, and so forth. - Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. -  NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and  weight. - Total weight of waste by type and disposal method.   Publicis Groupe has no facility or site concerned by this type  of emission.  Total mass of waste by type and treatment method.   The Groupes total mass of waste was 5,250 tons, reduced  from 2010, thanks to substantial efforts to consume  less. GRI EN17 GLObAL COmPACt Principle 9 FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.1 ISO 26000 6.5, 6.5.5 GRI EN18   FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.1 ISO 26000 6.5, 6.5.5 GRI EN19 / EN20 / EN21 FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.1 ISO 26000 6.5, 6.5.3 GRI EN22 FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.1 ISO 26000 6.5, 6.5.3 Energies: electricity, gas,  fuel oil and other fluids... Fluids Travel, professional  and personal; shipping Fixed assets: buildings,  IT equipment, etc. Consumables: paper, cartridges,  office supplies, etc. Waste TeqC Scope 1 GHG = Direct emissions: Energies:  gas, fuel oil and other fluids  + professional travel (auto) Scope 3 GHG = Other travel (incl. by plane, by train...),  professional and personal; Fixed assets;  Consumables; Waste Scope 2 GHG = Electricity bought 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 35,000 45,000 40,000 30,000 50,000 389 20,959 7,014 14,842 45,883 172 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 66,801 7,722 195,965 TeqC Waste Scope 1 GHG = Direct emissions: Energies:  gas, fuel oil and other fluids  + professional travel (auto) Scope 3 GHG = Other travel (incl. by plane, by train...),  professional and personal; Fixed assets;  Consumables; Waste Scope 2 GHG = Electricity bought 172 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 66,801 7,722 195,965 TeqC  33   The waste is essentially paper and cardboard (paper  used in printing, thick graphics paper, newspapers and  magazines, light cardboard, etc.). A good number of cit- ies, mainly European capitals and very large cities, have  invested in waste recuperation and recycling with local  partners. Our agencies deal with local service providers,  many of whom are part of the Social and Solidarity Eco- nomy.  - Total number and volume of significant spills. -  Weight of transported imported, exported or treated waste  deemed hazardous. - Percentage of transported wastes shipped internationally.    Publicis Groupe has no facility or site concerned by this type  of emission. 4.1.6 Products and services   Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and  services, and extent of impact mitigation.   These initiatives are taken up with our clients and in respect  of our client relationships, mainly in two ways:  - Firstly, in daily business operations, by making an effort  to reduce travel by using telepresence rooms on both sides,  or videoconferencing, telephone conference calls, and being  careful to use less paper (using digital technology for pres- entations); - Secondly, in communications per se, by using eco-de- signing in the upstream stages of our work. This is mani- fested in different ways: by carefully selecting communica- tions supports (working with qualified, certified printers);  in events communication, by choosing the materials used  (by definition, for a short lifespan) and planning their end- of-life stages; in packaging, working with specialists to  anticipate materials and consider environmental factors in  our client proposals; in the design of certain web sites or  digital applications, to find graphics solutions or navigation  architectures that use less energy (in the slow surf spi- rit).   We point out that about twenty agencies are certified   ISO 9001 and/or ISO 14 001, in addition to local certifications.  The point of these measures is, in one manner or another  depending on the agencys specific activity, to lead them and  their people to using more virtuous processes which are  more environment-friendly. GRI EN27   ISO 26000 6.5 Percentage of products sold and their packaging recycled, by  category.   Publicis Groupe has no operations involving packaged pro- ducts. 4.1.7 Compliance   Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non- monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental  laws and regulations.   Publicis Groupe did not incur any fine or non-monetary sanc- tion for non-compliance with local laws and regulations.  4.1.8 General   Significant environmental impacts of shipping products,  other goods and materials used by the organizations busi- nesses, and transportation of personnel.   The total for all transport (personnel and shipping) was 45,883  Teqc (a 20% increase in the impact compared to 2010, during  which the Groupe put a restriction on travel - see N.B.*). The direct impacts of employee transportation can be broken  down as follows: - Commuting: 294,631,024 km - Business travel: 457,966,572 km: by airplane: 392,225,925 km by road: 54,920,716 km by train: 10,819,904 km * N.B.: The increase in air travel is due to the recovery of domestic  flights in the US and the increase in flights to China, entirely logical  given the increase in the Groupes business in that region.  GRI EN23 / EN 24 / EN 25   FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.2 ISO 26000 6.5, 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.5.6 GRI EN26   FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.1 ISO 26000 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.7.5 GRI EN28   FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.7 ISO 26000 6.5 GRI EN29   FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.1 ISO 26000 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6  34 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments  by type.  investments   Above and beyond major investments –e.g. to install and  equip the telepresence facilities (5 million euro from 2008  to 2011)– there were investments in various sites to save  energy and water, plus the efforts made to cut down paper  consumption. Added to this are the more modest invest- ments made here and there by the agencies themselves in  an effort to further environmental protection. The calculation  is made difficult by the nature of some of these invest- ments, which can in fact range from charity donations,  carbon offsetting plans, contributions with employees to  various campaigns from time to time, etc. The accounting for  all these different investments is not yet coherent enough to  produce an accurate assessment.  Employee awareness    For several years now, Green Teams (made up of volunteers  from the agencies) have been active in local initiatives and  various campaigns (like the True Blue movement in the  entire Saatchi & Saatchi network).  The Groupe has counted about 300 of these Green Teams  throughout the different entities. Their role is to take local  initiatives, in agreement with their management, to stage  occasional or regular information days to boost staff  awareness and get them moving on daily eco-gestures,  keeping them abreast of new products and services that  meet the highest environmental standards, and to inform  and train them in respect of the complex challenges of  sustainability.    The Green Teams exist in a great number of countries. They  were present in Groupe meetings to share experiences  among agencies held in 2011 in Paris, London, Boston, New  York, Chicago, Beijing, Shanghai and other cities.   FocuS Green week in France    The Green Teams in French agencies decided to try out a collective ap- proach in 2011. In addition to local actions each entity undertakes, which  will always be pertinent, the volunteers on the teams all got together  for a concerted effort for a week in November. They wanted to take an  overall approach, going into topics ranging from social to environmental  in nature. Different themes had to be organized for each day of the week  (Nutrition, Health, Energy saving, Waste sorting, to name a few). The  volunteers had to contact and invite experts in the various fields, spe- cialized service providers, clients or suppliers for joint actions, and make  sure it all came together as a coherent whole. The final results observed  for this first Groupe-wide Green Week were very positive in terms of par- ticipation, team spirit, interest and internal dynamics.  It was a real kick-off experience, the very first time that a collective  and cross-agency endeavor was organized for the whole Groupe in one  country, at the initiative of the Green Teams themselves. The internal sat- isfaction survey that followed the event confirmed the staffs interest in  this movement and their wish to renew the experience.  GRI EN30   FRENCH NRE LAw (ARt. 116) Art. 2.5 - Art. 2.7 ISO 26000 6.5