Brewing a Better Future Sustainability Report 2010  Karlovacka pivovara, a member of the Heineken group, is  a stable company and strong number two in the Croatian  beer market, holding a 26,1% share in 2010 (source:  Croatian Brewers Association). Karlovacka pivovaras  brewing tradition dates to 1854. Today it produces  approximately 1 million hectoliters of beer annually,  brewing and marketing Karlovacko (and its extensions  Karlovacko Radler and non–alcoholic Karlovacko Rally),  Heineken, Desperados, and two specialties (Gsser Dark,  Edelweiss Snowfresh). Karlovacka pivovara is the primary  Croatian beer exporter, responsible for approximately  50% of exports. The vision of Karlovacka pivovara is to  become the best brewery in Croatia which means to have  the best people, the best brands and the best technology.  Karlovacka pivovara is continually advancing its processes  and procedures. Contents Company profile 01 Foreword: Brewing a Better Future Together 02 - 03 Brewing a Better Future IMPROVE 04  Introduction 05 Green Brewer 07 Green Commerce EMPOWER 08  Introduction 09 Engaging Employees 11 Karlovacka pivovara cares IMPACT 12   Introduction 13 Responsible Consumption  brewery. In terms of investments in the brewery,  we are continuously looking into ways how to  advance our processes and procedures. In 2010  we acquired the OHSAS 18001 certificate for  protection of health and safety as well as renewed  the ISO 9001 for quality management. The  company is already certified with ISO 22000 (food  safety management) and ISO 14001  (environmental management system). We have  also completed our waste water treatment plant  project, including reconstruction of the sewage  system and modernization of our brewhouse.  We are focused on making Karlovacka pivovara the  best place to produce beer. Employees are an  important element of our business, and we invest  in their development as they are ambassadors of  our company and brands. We will continue our  efforts, building on these strong foundations and  so, continue to realize our vision. Alexander Gerschbacher President of Management Board of Karlovacka  pivovara Herewith, I proudly present our second  sustainability report. In 2010 we published our first  sustainability report, covering various aspects of  corporate social responsibility (CSR) supported by  relevant data in order to contribute to the  transparency of our activities, including  statements regarding our environmental impact. A  positive relationship with our local community and  the environment are key pillars of Karlovacka  pivovaras CSR. As a result of constant efforts to  reduce our environmental impact, figures show  that between 2008 and 2010 Karlovacka pivovara  has decreased consumption of electric energy by  9,6%, thermal energy by 13,4%, and water by  27,1% per hectoliter of beer produced. Karlovacka  pivovara is not complacent about these  achievements, rather, the company remains  committed to further improvements and  reductions in environmental impact.  Our brewery has a dedicated team in regard to the  CSR agenda, I have full confidence in the positive  progress of Karlovacka pivovaras reducing  environmental footprint, as sustainable in the  long-term. Karlovacka pivovara is a strategically  important part of the Heineken group in Central  and Eastern Europe, and it has an ideal position in  the very heart of Croatia.  We are a strong company, proud of the  achievements made in 2010. The past two years  have been economically challenging generally, as  well as for the beer industry specifically. The  market declined by 6% in 2009 and the trend  continued with figures showing an 8% decline in  2010. Croatia is still struggling with the impact of  the global economic crisis, however, we are  satisfied with Karlovacka pivovaras performance  in the market. We prepared well for the crisis, by  managing expenses and focusing on priority  projects. Despite the difficult conditions we have  managed to strengthen our position from a market  share of 25,8% in 2009 to 26,1% in 2010 (source:  Croatian Brewers Association). The main driver of  our positive results is a constant commitment to  investment in our brands, our employees and the  Foreword Brewing a Better  Future, Together 1 Heineken N.V. Sustainability Report 2010 1 Sustainability Report 2010 Member of the Heineken group  Brewing a Better Future To be the   Worlds Greenest Brewer Brewing   a Better Future Green  Brewer Green  Commerce Engaging   Employees Heineken  Cares Responsible  Consumption Partnerships   for Progress Improve Continuously improve  the environmental  impact of our brands  and business Empower Empower our people  and the   communities   in which we operate Impact Positively impact  the role of beer  in society Governance, Senior management incentives,   Reporting & transparency, Supplier Code,   Communication & engagement In April 2010, we proudly unveiled Brewing a Better Future, Heinekens comprehensive  and integrated sustainability strategy for the next decade. It increases the scope and  scale of the groups work on sustainability and gives substance to the long-term ambition  to be the worlds greenest brewer. It also allows us to balance our need for financial  sustainability with the role we play in society.  Our long-term  ambition 23 programmes   grouped into six   key initiatives Our journey is  summarised by Three strategic  imperatives Five  enablers 2  Brewing a Better Future is an exciting journey that  has only just begun. To realise our vision of a more  sustainable world, we will make positive and  long-term investment in the environment,  communities, people and partnerships. To make  sure we reach our objective, we have focused our  actions and energy around three strategic  imperatives:   Continuously Improve the environmental  impact of our brands and business  Empower our people and the communities  in which we operate  Positively Impact the role of beer in society. From these, we have grouped 23 programmes   of work into six inter-related initiatives that   will enable us to realise our Brewing a Better  Future goals.  Karlovacka pivovara Karlovacka pivovara, as part of the Heineken  group, is committed to the Brewing a Better Future  strategy, and sustainability as the core of our  overall business. In order to realize our vision of  being the best brewery in Croatia, we are  committed to sustainability and we are making  positive and long-term investments in our local  community, environment, people and  partnerships.  In Karlovacka pivovara, Brewing a Better Future is  governed by a sustainability team, which held  meetings every two months in 2010.  The Sustainability team comprises:   Corporate communications manager   Corporate communications specialist    Quality assurance manager    Environmental coordinator    HR manager - supply chain department    Group brand manager - global brands    Category manager for commercials    General managers business assistant All Karlovacka pivovara management team  members have sustainability targets as part of the  programs they execute. Progress and issues in  relation to Brewing a Better Future are on the  agenda of management team meetings  approximately twice annually. On a daily basis,  Brewing a Better Future is governed by managers  of various departments while each individual  program is lead by a project leader. Karlovacka  pivovara has developed its own three-year plan  for achieving the goals of Brewing a Better Future,  rolled out in 2011. We are cooperating with our  stakeholders on sustainability issues and we will  continue to engage them in this important  sustainability dialogue. 3 Sustainability Report 2010 Member of the Heineken group  4 Karlovacka pivovara strives to continually  improve and invest in upgrading its  environmental protection system.   Our main goals are:   Decrease in energy and fluids consumption  (electricity, thermal energy, water)  Decrease of CO2 emission  Sustainable waste management. Karlovacka pivovara has already fulfilled two  milestones for 2010:   Completion of a waste water treatment plant   Modernization of the brewhouse. Improve We are proud of positive  trends with regards to  reducing energy  consumption, as a result of  our commitment to  sustainability and TPM.  Zvonimir Nemet Supply Chain Director  5 Green Brewer Karlovacka pivovara is committed to sustainability  and a positive contribution to the environment. We  are focused on energy efficiency. Karlovacka  pivovara plans to gain further savings in energy  consumption by optimizing all processes. The total  energy consumption of Karlovacka pivovara has  decreased from 199.7 MJ/hl in 2009 to 189.0 MJ/hl   in 2010, thus our target of 191.3 MJ/hl has not only  been achieved, but surpassed. Our goal is to  decrease total energy consumption to 172,4 MJ/hl   by 2013. Though our total production volume in  2010 has decreased by 5.3%, figures related to  energy consumption are the result of technical  improvements and improvements in internal daily  control systems. Specific total energy consumption breweries,  soft drink and water plants MJ/hl beer + soft drink  + water The thermal energy consumption for Karlovacka  pivovara has decreased from 118.2 MJ/hl in 2009  to 112.1 MJ/hl in 2010. Thus our target of 113 MJ/ hl has been achieved.  Measures contributing to lower energy  consumption were:    Improvement of condensate return   Renewed isolation of steam boilers   Reduced leakage of steam and hot water Specific thermal energy consumption  breweries, soft drink and water plants MJ/hl beer + soft drink  + water The energy reduction target of 15% between 2002  and 2010, of the Aware of Energy program, has  been reached by Karlovacka pivovara. In fact, the  target has been surpassed, as a 19.1% reduction  was achieved within the period, 2004 to 2010. Completion of the waste water    treatment plant  Karlovacka pivovara  has its own waste  water treatment  plant. Construction of  the facility, including  reconstruction of the  sewage system, was  completed in 2010.  The waste water treatment plant has been a priority project of  Karlovacka pivovara since 2003. This is the most modern system  which enables high level of cleaning the waste waters on a small  and compact area. This project is important for Karlovacka  pivovara because it contributes to the positive impact on the  environment as an important pillar of the brewerys CSR agenda.  The project, including sewage system reconstruction, is 4,1 million  euro worth so far. The completion of the waste water treatment  plant will enable us to treat the brewery waste water and reduce  COD (chemical oxygen demand) and BOD (biological oxygen  demand). 213,6 199,7 189,0 191,3 183,2 178,8 172,4 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Specific total energy consumption breweries, cider, soft drink  and water plants MJ/hl beer + soft drink + cider + water Series2 Series1 129,4 118,2 112,1 113 104 100 95 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Specific thermal energy consumption breweries, soft drink  cider and water plants MJ/hl beer + soft drink + cider + water target actual Sustainability Report 2010 Member of the Heineken group  beer production process, a modernized brewhouse  will contribute to energy savings, allow for better  sanitation and will be easier to handle because of  automation.  Brewhouse modernization One of Karlovacka pivovaras largest projects in 2010  was the modernization of our brewhouse. The project  will significantly reduce consumption of thermal  energy; we expect savings up to 10 MJ/ hl. Two main  aspects will contribute to this: firstly, new technology  for our brewhouse in form of energy recovery from  wort boiling and secondly, new vessels with better  insulation and completely renewed installations.  As the heart of the brewery and beginning of the  9,359136823 9,064556128 8,543503672 8,7 8,8 8,8 8,6 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Specific electricity consumption breweries, cider, soft drink  and water plants kWh/hl beer + soft drink + cider + water target actual The electricity consumption of Karlovacka  pivovara has continued to decrease during recent  years. It decreased from 9.1 kWh/hl in 2009 to 8.5  kWh/hl in 2010, as the result of optimization of  various processes, including reduction of work  done by air compressors (air leakage reducing,  usage of energy efficient air compressor).  Specific electricity consumption breweries,  soft drink and water plants kWh/hl beer + soft drink  + water The total direct and indirect CO2 emission of  Karlovacka pivovara has decreased from 11.9 kg  CO2 /hl in 2009 to 11.5 kg CO2 /hl in 2010. Our  carbon reduction strategy is based on a change of  fuel source and reduction of carbon-intensive  operations. We also plan to install new  automatically controlled burners. Karlovacka  pivovara plans to discontinue the use of middle  heavy fuel oil, in favor of gas and biogas rendered  by the waste water treatment plant.  Karlovacka pivovara pays great attention to water  consumption. Water is the main ingredient in beer  and is used in all phases of the production  process. The brewery is committed to optimizing  the use of this resource. Karlovacka pivovara has  decreased water consumption from 5.20  hectoliters of water per hectoliter of produced  beer (hl/hl) in 2009 to 4.98 hl/hl in 2010. In spite of  this, total water consumption in 2010 was above  target (4,70 hl/hl). The target was not met  primarily due to over consumption (in comparison  with the UBM – Utilities benchmark model) by the  packaging department.  6  6,83 5,20 4,98 4,70 4,70 4,50 4,20 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Specific water consumption breweries, soft drink, cider &  water plants hl water/hl beer + soft drink + cider + water target actual packaging, cooling equipment and distribution. To  reduce the environmental impact of our  packaging, we are focused on reducing material  used, increasing recycle content and recycling of  our materials at end of life. A waste collection  system for glass, plastic (PET) and aluminium is  present in the Croatian market. When supporting  brand events, Karlovacka pivovara promotes the  consumption of draught beer instead of bottles,  cans or PET as draught packaging is completely  recyclable and reusable. Beer is tapped into hard  plastic cups at all events. We also strongly support  separate waste collection at our brand events.  In 2010 Karlovacka pivovara supported The Green  City project. The main goal was to raise awareness  of environmental issues and encourage people to  act responsibly. Everyone who joined us at events  organized in the Croatian capital, Zagreb, and  enjoyed a glass of beer, contributed to the UN  biodiversity program of Green Action – from every  glass of beer sold, we donated 13% of profits to  the program. Karlovacka pivovara is also adopting Heinekens  standards for purchasing environmentally friendly  cooling equipment, beginning with refrigerators.  The companys policy regarding cooling  equipment is to only buy new models for which  energy consumption and environmental load are  as low as possible. As a participant of the Green  cooling program, Karlovacka pivovara purchased  1220 green fridges in 2010. Specific water consumption breweries, soft  drink and water plants hl water/hl beer + soft drink  + water The brewery made a serious effort to correct for  this through Total Productive Management (TPM)  activities, by finding and eliminating weak points.  Further improvement is expected, in particular by  TPM AM (autonomous management) packaging  activities. Analysis of water consumption per line  and machine is now an ongoing activity. We  continually strive to improve activities in this area,  with a long-term goal of decreasing our water  consumption to 4.2 hl/hl by 2013.  The energy used in the brewery comes mostly  from non-renewable resources. We attempt to  control energy consumption in order to reduce  our environmental footprint as well as our costs.  We have implemented a TPM protocol, containing  methods of sustainable change, and have launched  TPM teams at important locations. TPM entails  continuous and consistent effort, the goal of which  is to reduce and re-capture lost energy and  materials. Green Commerce Karlovacka pivovara is improving the efficiency of  its distribution operations. To help reduce our  carbon footprint we only transport fully loaded  trucks. The objective is to make transport  operations more efficient.  Karlovacka pivovaras foremost dedication is to  consumer satisfaction. It is thus imperative that  our products reach consumers in excellent  condition. We care about sustainable development  and are responsible with regards to product  7 Sustainability Report 2010 Member of the Heineken group  8 Karlovacka pivovara is a responsible company  and employer. Employees are the key to our  success and the ambassadors of the company.  Karlovacka pivovara is committed to ensuring the  occupational safety of its employees, and to  developing competence in this field. The  company also cares about the personal  development of its employees though education  and performance management system.  Empower Our aim is to reduce  health and safety risks and  to ensure a safe working  environment. We are keen  to engage and motivate  employees.  Dijana Klekar Human Resources Manager  9 Sustainability Report 2010 Engaging Employees Karlovacka pivovara is committed to introducing  constant improvements in the total quality of the  companys business. Our goal is to ensure the  highest level of health and safety for our  employees, but also for visitors to the brewery and  external partners. To this end, Karlovacka pivovara  constantly organizes training for employees, the  aim of which is to improve occupational safety and  to create a safe workplace. In 2010 there were no  fatalities, permanent disabilities or serious  accidents of contractors. Karlovacka pivovara was successful in reducing the  severity of accidents. Accident severity decreased  from 76 lost calendar days/100 FTE (full time  equivalent) in 2009 to 66 lost calendar days/100  FTE in 2010. This is the result of various  improvements related to occupational safety in  the brewery: OHSAS 18001 implementation, risk  assessment per process carried out,  implementation of Heineken procedures and  standards, training of operators and focus of  safety observation teams in the packaging  department.  Accident severity lost calendar days/100 FTE for all sites In 2010 there were 4 accidents amongst  Karlovacka pivovara employees in the supply  chain. Accidents occurred mostly in the bottling  hall (3), while 1 accident occurred in the  fermentation and services. The number of lost  days associated with these accidents decreased in  comparison to 2009, due to a lower accident  severity. Accident frequency increased from 1.0  cases/100 FTE in 2009 to 2,4 cases/100 FTE in  2010. Three of the four accidents resulted in cuts  in the packaging department. Each accident was  analyzed and improvements were implemented,  new working instructions were issued and  operators were trained.   Accident frequency cases/100 FTE for all sites Code of Business Conduct  As a respected company and member  of the renowned international brewer  Heineken, Karlovacka pivovara  respects Croatian laws as well as  high international standards. We  have our own Code of Business  Conduct. The Code contains rules  which the workers have to respect  when acting as representatives of  Karlovacka pivovara. The following  elements are included in the Code:  legal regulations, prevention of  fraud, conflict of interest, business gifts, corruption, aspects of  supply chain, advising, reporting the breaking of the rules. The  Code was implemented in 2006 and was updated in 2010 due  to changes in Croatian law. After the update, internal workshops  were held involving 82% of employees. All employees received  a copy of the Code, which is also published on HeiPORT. It is the  policy of Karlovacka pivovara to provide a copy of the Code to all  new employees and to inform them of the rules and regulations.  Parallel with the Code of Business Conduct, an internal disclosure  procedure is implemented, the so called Whistle Blowing  procedure for serious breaches of company policy or other  malpractice. In 2010, no breaches of the Code were reported.  Breaches can be reported to any one of six selected trusted  representatives from different departments of the brewery,  or anonymously via a special on-line system (Call.Heiway.com  system).  In 2010 the renowned international certification  company SGS awarded Karlovacka pivovara  certificate OHSAS 18001 (health and occupational  safety management system). In the beginning of  June 2010 SGS conducted a certification audit of  Karlovacka pivovara, according to OHSAS 18001  and concluded that the brewerys health and  occupational safety management system meets  the requirements of this internationally recognized  norm. This certificate issued by an independent  certification company demonstrates that  Karlovacka pivovara is proactively dealing with the  protection of health of its employees as well as  their safety at work. In order to remind employees  of the importance of occupational safety, the TPM  team placed 4 dummies dressed in protective  clothing specified by the safety rules. The  dummies are placed conspicuously, in high traffic  areas of the brewery: at the entrance of  fermentation, at the entrance of the bottling hall  and in front of the canteen. Karlovacka brewerys  TPM team has engaged employees in the TPM  program. Employees participate in motivational  Member of the Heineken group  and rewarded initiatives such as an idea contest  and quarterly TPM awards for the most successful  individuals and teams. Programs are  communicated via internal channels: HeiPORT  (intranet), an internal magazine and notice boards.  Ensuring the health and occupational safety to our  employees is a priority of Karlovacka pivovara as a  responsible company and employer. Beside annual  medical exams for all employees, we conduct a  special activity on World Day for Safety and Health  at Work. In association with the local Diabetes  Organization, we organized in 2010 measuring of  employees blood glucose level. The importance of  prevention of work-related injuries and diseases  was communicated via internal channels (HeiPORT,  notice boards).  Karlovacka pivovara had 369 employees in 2010.  The company promotes a collective agreement  policy, in which a workers council acts as a social  partner to the management board. There is also a  Trade Union in the brewery, of which 65% of  employees are members. Employees are free to  join any trade union of their choice.       Karlovacka pivovara constantly invests in  employees education. In 2010, 349 employees  participated in various types of training (94% of  employees participated in 5,440 training hours).  Karlovacka pivovara wants to develop a dialogue  with its employees. One of the activities that help  us to improve communication and the  environment is the climate survey. In 2010 the  company conducted a climate survey, in which no  less than 92% of employees participated. Results  showed that the direction and alignment of  employees as well as their attitude towards the  company are strong points, while reward,  recognition and personal development need  further focus. Karlovacka pivovara believes in the need of  rewarding employees who stand out as an  example to others. To this end, we have initiated  Employee of the Quarter, in which employees  nominate a person who deserves to be awarded  the title Employee of Quarter. This activity is a  good motivational tool, allowing the company to  show it values team work and extra effort. It also  creates internal awareness of the qualities a good  employee has. The activity is communicated  through all available internal channels including  the so called wall of fame with photos of the  winners in a central and visible location of the  brewery. Karlovacka pivovara appreciates its employees,  their efforts and engagement. We are also aware  that the families of our employees are contributing  to the success of Karlovacka pivovara. In order to  express our appreciation for the families, the  company organizes a Sports and Family Day every  spring. This is a gathering of employees and their  families, a great opportunity to spend some time in  an informal setting, having fun and enjoy sports  activities like biking, horse riding, or playing table  football. On the day, a special childrens program is  also offered.  In 2010 Karlovacka pivovaras quality assurance  laboratory celebrated its 50th anniversary during  which we organized an Open doors day for all  employees. The quality assurance department  employees were actively engaged, presenting  their everyday work to colleagues from other  departments. A special tour was organized for the  local media – with the presence of the President of  Management Board and two retired employees,  who took part in the establishment of the  laboratory in the 1960s. On this special occasion  the brewery gave recognition to their work in the  past. This activity contributed to a feeling of pride  as a worker in Karlovacka pivovara; employees  working in the Quality assurance department have  presented their work and by that contributed to  better understanding of the quality control  processes among the employees working in other  departments. In 2010 Karlovacka pivovara organized another  special event for employees - a surprise Christmas  concert in the brewery. The Karlovacko Live  campaign is a traditional music platform of the  Karlovacko brand. Musicians who had performed  at Karlovacko Live 2010 came to perform at the  brewery, as a Christmas surprise for employees.  The event included an official photo-opportunity  with the musicians, and created a feeling of  appreciation and enjoyment in an informal setting.  A little fun among colleagues, but mostly it  contributed to a better understanding of our  brand strategy. Karlovacka pivovara cares As a significant part of the local economy,  Karlovacka pivovara puts strong emphasis on  cooperation with local partners and stimulates the  local economy. A lot of effort is put into finding  local suppliers who can compete with eastern  suppliers. The cost of transportation from Asia is a  major component of the final product cost. By  sourcing locally we are tackling two problems at  10  once. Firstly by helping to improve the local  economy and increasing the satisfaction of local  stakeholders. Secondly, by sourcing locally we are  reducing costs associated with the sourced  product as well as reducing our carbon footprint.  A successful example of this is our cooperation  with P.E.S., a factory that performs custom  smelting, forming various products from metal. In  2010 we purchased 2,103 kg of metal POS  materials (key rings and bottle openers) which are  produced in Croatia at competitive prices. This  project continues in 2011 - to date we have  purchased 1,025 kg of metal POSM. By  collaborating with P.E.S. on aspects of design, we  are creating items that are tailor made to our  needs and those of our customers. Karlovacka pivovara is a safe place to work and a  conscientious neighbor. In order to improve our  relations with the neighborhood, brewery  representatives have met with neighbors several  times per year, since 2007. These meetings are a  good opportunity to present the activities and  development of brewery processes, but also gives  members of our local community an opportunity  to ask questions and receive explanations.  Karlovacka pivovara is situated on a city block in  Dubovac. In 2010 only 1 complaint was filed  against Karlovacka pivovara, due to dark smoke  rising from the KaPi chimney. Information was  forwarded and the Utilities corrected the situation  immediately. The cause of failure was due to the  burners inability to automatically adapt. The  existing burners were produced in 1978,  investment and replacement of the burners has  been planned. Karlovacka pivovara is an important part of the  local economy and community. We want to make a  positive impact on people living here. In 2010, for  the second year in a row, Karlovacka pivovara  executed Donation tender. There were 326  applications, of which 54 local projects in five  areas were supported by an expert group: sport,  education, culture, environment and humanitarian.  The projects focused on development and  wellbeing of the local community and its  inhabitants. Donation tender was a as successful  project, which will continue in 2011. Karlovacka pivovara aims to support the main local  events. Traditionally, Karlovacka pivovara is a  general sponsor of popular beer festival,  Karlovacki dani piva. The company also supports  Ivanjski krijes (Johns bonfire) – a traditional  celebration of the beginning of summer,  International Folklore Festival in Karlovac, Contest  for the most beautiful river beach in Karlovac, etc. We are aware that beer is a fascinating product  and we want to share our fascination with other  people. Every year we organize an Open Doors  Day, introducing visitors to the brewery with a tour  of the brewhouse, fermentation department, filling  house, and ending with tasting of beers from our  portfolio. 11 Sustainability Report 2010 Member of the Heineken group  12 Beer is fun and exciting  but enjoyment has to be  responsible. So we  continually find ways to  include a message of  responsible consumption in  our promotional activities. Kristijan Gregoric Marketing and Export Director As a producer of beer, Karlovacka pivovara  considers it important to encourage responsible  alcohol consumption, amongst consumers in  general, but especially amongst our workers. We  pay a great deal of attention to responsible  commercial communication. Impact  13 Sustainability Report 2010 Who drives you home? In 2010 Karlovacka pivovara focused  on a Drinking and Driving program  by connecting the responsibility  activity to our non-alcoholic brand,  Karlovacko Rally. We organized Who  drives you home – a BTL/marketing  activity promoting responsible drinking  among consumers. We also presented  non-alcoholic beer as an alternative  to alcoholic beer, a responsible beer  refreshment, in particular when taking a  break from work.  There were three target groups:  1. business people on their launch break 2. professional drivers  3. people who prefer non-alcoholic drinks when spending time  with family  We want to promote responsible thinking and behavior by offering  an alternative. To this end, we have thought of a catchy and  thought-provoking tag line: Who drives you home? which has  been applied to all promotional materials. 1,200 posters were  issued to retailers along with numerous incentives (6,000 decks  of playing cards, 4,500 portable alcohol tests and 1,800 shirts),  which were distributed to customers purchasing non-alcoholic  beer during the activity.  Responsible Consumption To educate and raise awareness internally on the  dangers of alcohol abuse, an Alcohol Policy booklet  was published in 2006, and distributed to all  brewery employees. It is the policy of Karlovaka  pivovara to provide a copy of the Alcohol Policy  booklet to all new employees. This policy compiles  with elements stated in the Cool@Work policy.  According to rules and regulations on availability of  alcoholic drinks in the workplace, Karlovacka  pivovara pursues a zero tolerance policy regarding  the consumption of alcohol in the workplace. During  2010 we conducted a training for the high risk  group i.e. sales representatives and drivers, and  published all relevant information on our intranet.  In order to make the responsibility message clear to  consumers, Karlovacka pivovara has included  the  Enjoy Responsibly logo on all commercial material  and product packaging. Information regarding  moderate alcohol consumption is available on a  website (www.uzivajukarlovackomodgovorno.com).  In our commercial communication we apply several  laws and regulations including national legislation,  the national advertising standard and the national  beer advertising standard. All members of our  marketing and sales teams, who have decision and  budget authority, participate in regular training to  understand and comply with the Heineken Rules for  Responsible Commercial Communication. In 2005 in association with other Croatian  breweries, Karlovacka pivovara signed a  Responsible Marketing Communication Code,  including rules and regulations on responsible  advertising. In 2010 the Code was updated, aligning  with European standards. The Responsible  Marketing Communication Code of Croatian  Brewers describes marketing communication  standards that must be fulfilled in order to retain  consumer trust. In accordance with relevant laws  and respect of the advertising codes, the aim is to  actively promote high ethical standards in the  Marketing Communications of Croatian Brewers.  According to the Code, it is necessary to adhere to  the principles of legality, honesty, and good  business practice in all marketing communications.  All signatories should respect morality, human  dignity and integrity in their marketing  communications. This is particularly emphasized  because alcoholic beverages differ significantly  from other products, requiring greater caution and  responsibility in advertising.     In 2011 we plan to establish a partnership with a  NGO on the topic of responsible alcohol  consumption. Member of the Heineken group