Sustainability Report 2012  Contents 01 CEOs Message 02 Who are Aperam? 04 Our approach to sustainability 06 Safety at the core 10 People – the key to Aperam 14 People in our communities 16 Environmental stewardship in action 20 Customer experience 24 Innovating solutions 28 About this report 29 Summary of commitments See more at aperam.com/sustainability The International Stainless Steel Forum (ISSF) has granted its   2012 Sustainability Award to Aperam for SolarStyl, its pioneering  solar panel technology. Aperam South America is listed in the Sustainability Guide 2012   (Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade, published by Revista Exame) as   one of the top 21 most sustainable organisations in Brazil in 2011.  Some 150 companies were considered and Aperam scored 88.4%   on social performance, while the average was 86.1%. For the second year running Aperam South America was selected   as a top 150 Best Place to Work. The ranking appears in the   Guia Voce S/A – Exame edited by Editora Abril and the Foundation  Institute of Administration (FIA). The listing recognises action   taken on employee health and wellbeing. Aperam is a constituent company in the FTSE4Good Index series. Our awards  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  01 As CEO since December 2011 I have seen the compelling  passion in my colleagues to bring sustainability alive,   from shop floor to boardroom, from forestry to distribution.  And with it I witness at their core an unwavering focus  on safety, the theme of this report. Proud of our history, we now embark on a new course.  We have a Leadership Journey ahead, but we now start  our own sustainability journey. Why sustainability?   Well, our values of leadership, ingenuity and agility  support it. Customers expect it. Commercial value is   at risk without it. Regulators constantly evolve related  legislation. And it builds trust expected by employees,  future employees and contractors.  I am proud to champion Aperams sustainability  programme. It aligns well with my close interest in   air quality around our meltshops, in the value I see   in our forestry operations and my chairmanship of the  central environmental committee of MEDEF, the main  business association in France. I hold in high regard  my colleagues across the group who contribute to  sustainability: from environmental, health & safety  management, technical, engineering and sustainability,  through to communications and marketing.  Our goal is to be the safest steel company in the   world, and whilst our safety management indicators  showed an overall improvement in 2011, it is with  immense regret and sadness that we report two tragic  fatalities involving employees at our Timteo plant.   In January 2011, Aperams Head of Health & Safety was  immediately on the scene to analyse what happened.   In April 2012, I immediately flew to Brazil and spent three  days at the plant assessing the causes and working on  the details of our response. In memory of our colleagues,  the best thing that we can do is raise our safety  consciousness even higher; and I was reassured to see  the Timteo teams doing just that. I immediately asked  the management team there to propose, within one  month, an action plan for the whole plant.  Many people at Aperam achieved notable sustainability  successes in 2011. I note progress in people management,  alternative energy, water and the Continuous  Improvement Challenge. As we move to the next   stage of the journey we anticipate greater engagement  with stakeholders, further process efficiencies, and new  stories of achievement. This, our first, report accords   with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact  and GRI G3.1. Please do read it, I very much appreciate  any feedback you may have. Philippe Darmayan, Aperam CEO At Aperam, we have decades of experience in stainless steel and   alloy production. And Aperam is already 18 months old, so I am delighted   to be introducing this, our first, Sustainability Report. A journey of leadership and safety Where did you see us last? Products that are part of our lives Throughout this report we provide examples of our products in use.   Without them industry, lifestyles, health, transport and infrastructure   would be immeasurably compromised! Stainless steel fits perfectly into our lives. We trust it, we dont question it;  sometimes we dont even notice it. This is great testament to its properties,   form and function. It has great strength and durability. So not only does it  function brilliantly it literally lasts a lifetime. Actually, even longer than that. Above: Our CEO takes part in a site visit in 2011  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  02 Upstream Production Distribution,  transformation Aperam, a Luxembourg public limited company, was created  in January 2011 as a result of a spin-off from ArcelorMittal.  For details on who owns Aperam, see p40 of our Annual  Report 2011. In 2011, we recorded sales of US$6.3bn (4.8bn)  and we shipped around 1.75 million tonnes. We operate   six main plants in Belgium, Brazil and France and we employ  10,533 employees. We have two state-of-the-art melt  shops in Belgium, we serve niche markets in electrical steels  and special alloys and we are the only integrated producer  of flat stainless and electrical steel in South America.  Our customers benefit from a global, integrated distribution  network and on-site technical teams amounting to a clear  focus on service, partnership and customer satisfaction.   Our distribution network is composed of 19 Service Centres,  10 transformation facilities and 33 sales offices. Aperam  offers the widest stainless steel product range in the  world and is a leader in ferritics, bright annealed and wide  products. For details on our plant and equipment see p60   of our Annual Report. Aperam employs 131 research and development (R&D)  experts who provide leading edge innovation in, for example,  ferritics, high-end GO/NGO, nickel alloys, special-carbon  and duplex products. A major area of R&D work is the  development of new, lower cost, energy-saving processes.  We have strategic projects on alternative fuel for our Brazilian  blast furnaces. Biomass (charcoal) production is to be doubled  to serve 35% of Aperams energy needs by the end of 2012. Our Continuous Improvement programme ensures   process efficiency, cost savings and a strong focus on   health & safety, all of which are important to customers,   and our customers customers. We are a leading global stainless and specialty steel producer. We are a significant  producer in Europe and the largest in South America with a market share in   these regions of 25% and 65% respectively. We serve high-end mature and   emerging markets. We have a clear focus on efficiency, resilience, vertical integration   and responsible manufacturing. Who are Aperam? BioEnergia Forestry Stainless Steel Electrical Steel Alloys and  Specialties Services &  Solutions Sheets, tubes,   wire drawing,  production products Stainless steel is a steel alloy with a minimum   of 10.5% chromium content by mass and   a combination of alloys and offers incredible  properties for various applications. Flat stainless steel capacity in Europe  and South America 2.5mt US$ million 2011 2010 Adjusted EBITDA  392 410 Number of employees 10,533 9,904 Employee wages and benefits 761 709 Payments to suppliers 5,265 4,535 Taxes paid to government 58 61 Community investments 2 2 Payments to providers of funds 132 178 Research & development 20 21 Economic value retained 203 171 Economic value generated 6,454 5,691 Aperams corporate values are leadership, agility and ingenuity  – they define how we do things. They lead us to work within our  industry to set new standards, for example, and with our customers  to deliver efficient solutions of top notch quality. In our approach to  managing sustainability at Aperam we account for the three values,  and we strive to support the core proposition behind our brand. Leadership Ingenuity Agility See our Made for Life movie at aperam.com/brand_video Aperam Corporate Values  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  03 Who are Aperam? Production plants in Europe   and South America Stainless and electrical steels represent  2.5% of total world steel market in volume.  Its applications are many and various.   Demand for stainless steel often comes  later in the economic development cycle.  Aperam is affected by wider world and  market factors such as global economic  conditions, production capacity, trends  in raw material prices such as nickel and  fluctuations in exchange r ates. Risk factors  relating to these have been assessed as  part of our group risk analysis. For more  information on our business portfolio,  market analysis, financial review, risk review  and corporate governance please refer   to our Annual Report. Raw materials Whilst the raw materials we use derive  mainly from finite resources, the materials  we use are extensively composed of scrap  stainless and carbon steel. In Europe almost  100% of our products are produced from  post-industrial, recycled metal.  Stainless steel exhibits astonishing properties  such as a high strength-to-weight ratio, heat  tolerance, aesthetics and recycling. The primary  raw materials that we use include stainless and  carbon steel scrap, iron ore, nickel, ferrochrome,  molybdenum and charcoal (biomass).  Prices strongly correlate with demand for  all forms of steel and tend to fluctuate with  supply and demand changes. We have been  exposed to price volatility for most of these,  for example, nickel, over the past few years.   Our performance can be affected by perceived  or real scarcity of reserves and the evolution  of the pipeline of new exploration projects  to replace depleted reserves. Our products are produced in various grades.  Specialist steels such as nickel alloys  contain elements such as nickel, chromium,  cobalt, molybdenum, niobium, and titanium.  Such blends offer outstanding corrosion  and mechanical resistance. Please see our  Annual Report, p12, for more.  	 Melt shop 	 Hot-rolling Chtelet Belgium 	 Melt shop 	 Cold-rolling mill Genk Belgium 	 Cold-rolling mill 	 Finishing Gueugnon France 	 Cold-rolling mill 	 Finishing Isbergues France 	 Melt shop 	 Finishing Timteo Brazil 	 Melt shop 	 Finishing Imphy France Plants Service Centres Forest To see our Annual Report,   please visit aperam.com/who- are-we/investors-shareholders/ aperam-reports Aperam around the world  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  04 Sustainable development is an evolution.  Our people have always sought to operate  with environmental and ethical integrity.  Since its incorporation in January 2011,  Aperam moved quickly to begin formalising  a strategic approach to sustainability.   We want to create value from sustainability  and align it with our core processes tracking  risk, decision-making and performance.  Using our experts in-house we have assessed  what our priority issues are, and who are  Aperams key stakeholders. This helps  sustainability to gain traction at senior  levels. We are now at the point of refining  how sustainability fits with our long term  commercial direction, and defining our  ambition. Its clear that many parts of the  business connect strongly with sustainability,  for example through our annual Health &  Safety Day, our switch to natural gas and  biomass charcoal in Brazil, our carbon dioxide  emissions performance and our products  such as electrical steel or SolarStyl.  The pyramid below shows the most  important aim for us is leadership,  particularly in safety. Below the pyramids  peak are the issues under management,  or being tracked. The diagram also shows  the wider issues where we have some  accountability and influence.  We recognise that, if not managed  appropriately, some of our activities have  the ability to present challenges from   a sustainability perspective. An example  might be future demand for water or land,  amenity impacts on local communities,   and greenhouse gas emissions from   our operations.  Crucially, in parallel, it is important to  acknowledge the contribution to society  that stainless steel provides. This relates  to the inherent trust in the product, its  benefits such as cleanliness and the myriad  applications in, for example, healthcare,  infrastructure and lifestyle. Governance  Aperams Board of Directors comprises  seven members; four are independent.   The Board of Directors has four committees  as shown in the table. The Management  Committee is entrusted with the day-to-day  management of Aperam. Mr Philippe  Darmayan is the Chief Executive Officer and  a member of the Management Committee.  The company monitors US, European Union  and Luxembourg corporate governance  requirements to ensure best practice   is adopted, such as the Ten Principles of  Corporate Governance of the Luxembourg  Stock Exchange. Sustainability, Performance   and Strategy Committee This committee is composed of three  directors, its members are appointed   by the Board of Directors annually and   it takes decisions by a simple majority.   The committee exists to regularly  review our approach to sustainability  and recommend how to implement the  sustainability programmes in a way that  creates and protects commercial reputation  and value. During 2011, this committee   met six times. The average attendance   rate at meetings held in 2011 was 88.9%.  Our Sustainability Steering Committee  Aperams corporate sustainability team   runs a Sustainability Steering Committee   of nine senior people. At a day-to-day level  it is responsible for driving and managing  sustainability at Aperam and works on the  strategic approach to material sustainability  risks, stakeholder relationships, reporting,  assurance and an overall sustainability vision.  The Management Committee sets the long  term ambition for this committee.  Managing sustainability at Aperam Continual improvement Our vision is to be the company that constantly challenges the status quo in our   sector in order to reshape the future of stainless steel and specialty steel products. Our approach to sustainability Human rights Anti-corruption Water Employee  wellbeing Recyclability,   materials Community   development Safety Supply chain Energy/  Carbon Local emissions Quality Health   & Safety   leadership in   the sector Stakeholder  engagement Customer  satisfaction Ambition Global focus areas Regional focus areas  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  05 Name Position  held in  Aperams  Board of  Directors Status Sustainability,  Performance  and Strategy  Committee Audit and Risk  Committee Remuneration,  Nomination  and Corporate  Governance  Committee Transition  Committee Lakshmi  Mittal Chairman Non- independent Aditya  Mittal Member  Non- independent Romain  Bauch Member Independent Member Chairman David  Burritt Member Independent Chairman Member Member Kathryn  Matthews Member Independent Member Chairman Laurence  Mulliez Member  Independent Member Member Member Gonzalo  Urquijo Member  Non–  Independent Chairman Critical Major Moderate Minor Minor Moderate Major Critical Our approach to sustainability Material issues at Aperam 2011–2012 We identified a range of issues that  matter and that may influence the  decisions, actions and performance of our  stakeholders. The relative importance of  these issues was then assessed internally  (meeting business strategy) and externally  (stakeholders positions on the issues).  Corporate risk was taken into consideration  in this review. The grid above shows the  material issues identified as a result of this  work. This is a dynamic process that helps  improve how issues should be managed.  What are our key material issues? Our most material issues Aperams Board of Directors 1 Health and Safety 2 Economic value generated  3 Local air quality 4 Labour relations  5 Business integrity 6 Energy use and efficiency  7 Materials use efficiency  8 Greenhouse gas emissions 9 Use of recycled materials  10 Waste management 11 Ozone depleting emissions 12 Customer satisfaction 13 Employee development and engagement 14 Environmental management and compliance 15 Water use and recycling  16 Local supply chain engagement 17 Local employment 18 Waste water 19 Human rights 20 Community involvement 21 Environmental fines incurred 22 Biodiversity 9 15 21 4 16 1 10 17 22 5 18 2 6 19 3 7 20 Current or potential impact on Aperam Level of concern to stakeholders 8 13 11 12 14 The issues to the top right of the grid   are the most important to both commercial  success and stakeholder relationships.  Those in the mid range of the grid are  significant and a focus for our sustainability  strategy and plans. The issues to the lower   left are not generally included in our reporting,  but are managed individually. Working with our stakeholders  In line with our vision we are developing  how we work with those parties affected  by Aperam, and who affect us. We strive to  develop a culture of trust and transparency  through honest engagement with our  stakeholders. What we learn is accounted  for in our materiality assessment. Our key stakeholders are employees,  investors, customers, local communities   and trade unions. Local communities   are particularly relevant in South America,  whilst trade union engagement is   a focal area in Europe. We work with  suppliers on local economic development  around our South American operations.   The mining and minerals sector –   a key part of our raw materials supply  chain – is intensely scrutinised by external  stakeholders. Our general purchasing  conditions cover safety and environmental  requirements and will be expanded to  cover human rights in future. Leadership  and partnerships help us understand and  manage challenges arising such as finding  and retaining skilled people. So we shout  loudly that we are an employer of choice  that focuses on safety, diversity and  respect for the environment. Safety Governance and commerce Environmental People and community We strive to be the leading  industry catalyst in stainless   steel and specialties  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  06 safe  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  07 Where did you see us last? With your safety in mind Safety, health and security are enhanced by the outstanding  properties of stainless steel and alloys. The food and catering  industries count on its cleanliness for food safety and taste.   Medical sectors use it extensively for its hygiene and reliability,   for example scissors, hypodermics and blades. Its mechanical strength  and fire-resistance help reduce the severity of impacts when used   in buildings or vehicles involved in accidents or other catastrophes.  Its corrosion resistance renders it ideal for use to handle chemicals  or transport gases, especially in extreme environments.  Agility Agility is knowing when to  stop. We each must be alert   to every risk. We must stop any  activity that could represent   a risk to ourselves or to others. Ingenuity The ingenious know how to  observe. Each situation requires  careful assessment before acting.  Risk analysis and planning   will ensure work is performed  in the safest possible way. Leadership Leaders set an example.   Everyone has responsibility   for health & safety, to learn  from success and setback   and transform concerns   into action.  Safety is central to our corporate responsibility. No accident is acceptable.  Safety management must be a journey of vigilance. We capture this  commitment in our Journey to Zero. We aspire to zero incidents. This is grounded in our practical approach  to improvement. It is acknowledged that we work with serious,  life-threatening risks; this intensifies our awareness of hazardous situations.  Crucially, we are accountable for our own safety but also the safety   of those around us. We must choose the safest option, every time. Vigilance means a constant focus on the details: recognising that   life and work are full of distractions. So our approach to safety   is clear, straightforward and uncompromising. At the end of each shift,  everyone is to return home healthy and safe. Safety at the core  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  08 Aperam Health & Safety Policy Safety at the core How we manage this Our first priority is the safety of employees and contractors.   Any injury is unacceptable; we consider all incidents to be preventable.  Our long-term goal is zero accidents and injuries: everyone must  go home safe at the end of each shift. This commitment is codified  in our Journey to Zero. Our short-term targets guide our direction  towards the long-term goal. Our Health & Safety Policy presents our commitment to   the health and safety of all employees both on and off the job,  and is part of our Made for Life brand promise. We study the  relationships between at-risk behaviour and serious incidents.   We promote a behavioural dimension to safety where we all   take responsibility, are all accountable, and where we practice  what we preach. On our journey to becoming the safest workplace in the industry,  engagement with employees and contractors is vital. Engagement  happens informally but also in a coordinated way. At its core   are a zero accident culture and the sharing of best practices.   We also work with trade unions: all of our unionised employees  are covered by formal safety agreements between Aperam and  the local trade unions. This commitment and engagement of the  company, employees, trade unions and contractors was on display  at Aperams inaugural group-wide Health & Safety Day in 2011.  Training complements general awareness-raising, communication  and engagement. Our Health & Safety Policy commits us to provide  everyone with effective safety behaviour guidance.  1. Awareness:  Aperams Golden Rules govern the ten   most common health and safety risk areas  for our employees. Every meeting must  start with a safety-share. The Golden Rules  guide a variety of activities from regular  safety meetings, task briefings and contractor  engagement as well as our Health and  Safety Day. Other communication campaigns  focus on falls, protective equipment and  at-risk behaviour.  2. Accountability: Our Fair Play Policy sets out the  commitment of each and every employee to  be accountable for their own safety and the  safety of their colleagues. The policy clearly  defines how to set an example through  safe practice and the procedures to act on  observed infringements of safe practice.  Safety management Safety is compromised when people   are unaware of safe practice, are unclear  on priorities, accept shortcuts, or do  not feel comfortable calling a halt to  unsafe practices. Therefore, our safety  management focuses on three elements: The ability to deliver safety is a prerequisite  for being a leader at Aperam. Our executives  are active proponents of safety: 20% of  Aperams executive pay is directly linked  to safety performance. Our Head of Health  and Safety is responsible for collecting  performance information and disseminating  learning, best practices, standards and  awareness across the group.  3. Shared vigilance: Our final focus is on empowering every  individual within Aperam to speak up  and intervene when unsafe practices are  observed. Whether it is the actions of  managers or the recommendations from  accident investigations, the responsibilities  of Aperam employees to stop unsafe  practices is highlighted throughout our  safety management practices. To improve our results, the introduction of   the behavioural dimension of safety is a major  step forward. Ilder Camargo, Group Head, Health & Safety 1. Working in  a fit and able  condition 2. Fall  protection/  prevention 3. Lockout/ isolation  procedure 4. Confined  space entry  procedure 5. Load  handling  rules 6. Traffic rules 7. Rail priority 8. Hazardous  gas areas 9. Safety  devices 10. H&S rules  and PPE Proportion of Aperam executives pay   directly linked to safety performance 20% Aperam safety Golden Rules Aperams Golden Rules cover the ten most common health and safety risk areas for our employees: Management is  accountable, leadership  culture crucial Safety process,   risk assessment, tools,   training and testing Production will be   stopped if unsafe Safety and  competitiveness   go hand-in-hand Safe products, safe  customers and users Employee participation   in management   and prevention  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  09 Safety at the core What happened in 2011 The most significant event very early in   2011 was a tragic fatality of a colleague  in Brazil. Please see our CEOs message on  p1. Our CEO spent time on-site discussing  detailed actions to prevent it happening  again and what at-risk behaviour took place. We measure our progress based on the  frequency and severity of accidents.   Our combined lost time incident frequency  rate (LTIFR) for employees and contractors  was 0.7 (thats 0.7 injuries resulting in lost  time per million working hours), well below  our target of 1.5. Our Brazilian operations  include manufacturing and forestry so the  overall risk profile differs; the LTIFR there  was 0.3. We also saw an improvement in  the relative severity of accidents achieving  a severity rate of 0.08 against a target of  0.09. We have made progress in targeting  the most dangerous risks. Aperams H&S Policy includes commitments   to reduce the risk of occupational disease,   such as exposure to harmful chemicals and  work-related stress. Occupational disease  and chronic health issues are built into our  absenteeism tracking: absence can arise from  incapacity of any kind, not just as the result of  work-related injury or disease. Our absenteeism  rate for the group is 2.8%. Commercial competitiveness cannot be   achieved without good health and safety  results so our 2011 Continuous Improvement  Challenge focused on health & safety   issues too. See p12 for more. Aperams safety management indicators 2006–2011 show a positive trend 3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 0 0.30 0.25 0.20 0.15 0.10 0.05 0 2006 2007 2008 LTI Frequency Rate  Severity Rate 2009 2010 2011 Sustainable competitiveness  is not possible without good  Health & Safety results. Philippe Darmayan, CEO At the heart of the day is collaboration  between colleagues, contractors, trade  union leaders and community members.  Sites focused on hazard identification  and risk assessment as well as broader  topics such as healthy lifestyles.  The Aperam Health and Safety  Committee prepared a programme with  mandatory actions and an H&S roadmap  for 2011. The day helps deliver the  ambition of our H&S Policy.  CEO and senior management visits  included safety audits and presentations  of safety awards. Aperam Golden Rules  seminars focused on topics such as  fatality prevention standards, working  at height, driving, chemicals handling,  emergencies, protective equipment,  loading, nutrition, alcohol, stress, noise,  blood pressure and safety reporting. In 2011, the first Aperam   Health and Safety Day involved  almost 100% of employees.  In some places we shut down  production for it. Aperams group-wide Health and Safety Day Right: Images of the Health and Safety Day that  took place on 26 April 2012 across all of Aperam. 1. Timteo – Brazil: shop floor audit 2. Changzhou – China: first aid rehearsal 3. Genk – Belgium: shop floor audit Where are we going? 	 Maintain target-beating   LTIFR with constant vigilance  for further improvement 	 Improve visible leadership,  training, contractor safety,  safety reporting and best  practice sharing 	 Implement Fair Play policy   group wide  	 Improve quality of root cause  analyses of all accidents See more at aperam.com/sustainability 1. 2. 3.  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  10 open  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  11 Agility Each one of us is adapting   fast to changing conditions  and is ready to help out. Ingenuity Our employees are   passionate and always keen   to share knowledge and skills.   We cherish and encourage   a participative approach and  continuous improvement. Leadership Leadership is about being   bold and audacious in   our approach and is why   we are adamant about   having development plans   in place for all. Our people represent the cornerstone of Aperam. The way people work  at Aperam is the main way that the three corporate values of leadership,  ingenuity and agility come alive.  In the same way that we listen to customers, we listen to our people:  for us 2011 was the year of socially responsible dialogue. As a new  company there is tangible evidence of a family atmosphere. In line with our approach to sustainability, we support, motivate and  reward our employees to help them realise their full potential, and we are  committed to providing an environment that promotes respect and equal  opportunities for every employee. Fortunately for us, underpinning all this  is a true, distinguishing trait of colleagues here at Aperam: our passion  for stainless steel. People – the key to Aperam 	 Bicycle cables 	 Vehicle exhausts 	 DIY powertools 	 Potable water  management systems 	 Cutlery, utensils, tools 	 Bacteria-resistant surfaces 	 Scissors and other blades 	 Medical implants 	 Jewellery Where did you see us last? Wellbeing at home Stainless steel is clever stuff. From our stainless and specialty  products comes the stuff of your everyday life and wellbeing.  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  12 Aperam Human Resources Policy A quest for excellence and continuous improvement People – the key to Aperam Our employees are the key to our success.  We strive to support them in their journey  to excellence through career development,  wellbeing and good pay. We focus on  development and active social dialogue. Our commitment to employees is codified   in our Human Resources Policy series   which aims to ensure wellbeing at work,  career development and training and  excellence through continuous improvement.  Local employment laws govern how we  implement the Policies. The diagram describes  the policies (see right).  Our first year of operation was declared a year  of socially responsible dialogue, managed  locally, and complemented by channels of  contact such as the intranet, site newsletters,  Continuous Improvement Challenge updates  and a biennial Leadership Survey of Aperams  commercial vision and strategy.  All employees must comply with our Code   of Business Conduct and our Anti-corruption  Guidelines. Our Diversity and Inclusion   Policy guides Aperam to recruit regardless  of ethnic origin, gender, age, disability   and physical characteristics.  Our people are central to achieving long term  goals such as the health & safety Journey to  Zero, cost competitiveness, and the new the  employee Value Proposition programme. Wellbeing at work We provide various benefits to employees  such as access to private pensions, medical  cover and travel insurance. We ensure that  health and safety are covered in all of our  formal agreements with trade unions;  100% of employees are represented by  formal joint management-worker health  and safety committees. Ensuring a safe  work environment requires an active safety  culture. See the Safety section for more. How we manage this Our Continuous Improvement (CI)  programme is an excellent platform  for employee engagement. In 2012 a  team from Gueugnon, France won first  prize for their project on restarting  a cold-rolling line. The project saves  750,000 annually and reduces safety  risks by preventing contact with the strip  and reducing fire hazards. The winning  team can lead on sharing the practices:  its an innovative way to engage and  train our employees across the group. The Aperam Continuous Improvement Challenge 2011 We take this Challenge seriously and invite  external parties to audit the teams findings  in all CI Challenge projects. This year Toyota  and ArcelorMittal sat on the judging panel.  The jurys decision is guided by criteria relating  to health and safety, cost, replicability, labour  relations issues, and defined next steps.   Pierre Gambardella, Technology Officer   at Toyota Europe summed up the event:   The right training Training enables us to fill emerging skills  gaps, improve job performance, prepare  employees for new roles and ensure that  employees follow our codes and policies.   Our commitment to learning and development  is codified in our Global Training Policy and  includes training for contractors. We have  in place procedures for identifying training  needs, running initiatives and tracking  attendance. Aperam offers seven training  routes, via online channels and face-to-face:  1. Induction training for newcomers 2. On-the-job training 3. Leadership training 4. General management 5. Health and safety 6. Functional and technical 7. Language training All employees receive information on   labour rights, employment law, HR support  and health and safety procedures.  Shaping our future leaders, long-term Our Leadership Development Policy aims   to support our employees and new recruits  to become leaders. The policy is implemented  through our Global Development Programme  for Exempts (GEDP), a management  level initiative which focuses on four  pillars: performance management, talent  identification, development planning,   and succession management. The aim is  that each manager performs their function  to the best of their ability, for them and   for Aperam. Those participating in the   GEDP receive regular feedback and coaching,  training for leadership, and appraisals. Aperams investment in employee   training 2011 7million Left: The winners of Challenge 2011,   Gueugnon team, on their reward trip to Brazil. Ensuring the training and personal  development of employees Clear focus on a safe working  environment An agile workforce shaped through  robust diversity and inclusion policy Clear links with policies on compliance,  anti-corruption and code of conduct Best practices in attracting,   retaining and recruiting people Global induction policy to get   the best out of new starters Leadership founded on principles  governing human resource management Employee relations policy guides  social dialogue and engagement  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  13 Where are we going? By the end of 2012: 	 Renew our training focus:  training plans in 93% of plants 	 Launch the Aperam Employee  Value Proposition initiative  	 Apply GEDP for 100% of senior  management/directors and 95%  of other management  	 Succession plans for 80%   of senior managers and 90%   of middle managers 	 Complete actions in response   to our Leadership Survey People – the key to Aperam The Aperam family In 2011 we directly employed 10,533  people, including corporate central   offices, research & development teams,   BioEnergia and 278 part time employees.  We indirectly employ 1,754 contractors,  trainees and temporary workers worldwide.  Our headquarters are in Luxembourg and  40% of us are in Brazil. In 2011 we saw   a reduction in headcount of 8% (excluding  BioEnergia) due to early retirement and  voluntary separation of employees,   as we streamlined some of our sites.   We will report group employee turnover  data in our next report. Aperam employees come from a wide  variety of ethnicities and nationalities.   The majority of our direct employees   are male: 11% are female. We commit   to improving our diversity. Aperam has  seven directors, including two women  (29%); above the average for our sector.  Further, in France, we have promoted  greater access to our training programmes   for women.  We contributed to employee wellbeing   in Europe and South America in 2011   by providing private pension facilities   for 99.9% of our employees. What happened in 2011 It was very interesting to discover an  insight into this business. I have been   very impressed by the strong motivation,  the teamwork and the professionalism   of all. From my external point of view,   I would like to highlight a very strong   asset of your company: is your capability   to share your innovations and replicate   your best achievements. We look forward to seeing who will win   out of the ten teams competing in 2012. Training and development  In 2011 we established annual training  plans for 92% of our sites, against a target  of 93%. We also invested 7m (US$9.1m)   in training our employees in 2011. In Brazil,  we invested US$2.9 million on 134,000 hours  of training. We worked with the Brazilian  National Service of Industrial Learning to  provide technical training for professionals  in our industry.  By the end of 2011, 94% of managers  (known as exempts) completed the GEDP  leadership programme. And 77% of all  managers now have career progression  plans in place, against a target of 80%.  Conversations with employees In 2011, via our Leadership Survey, 90%   of managers (exempts) agreed that we  are a world leader in stainless steel and 85%  understood how our vision Made For Life  related to their daily activities and to our  products. The survey highlighted areas for  improvement too: only 47% of exempts felt  that we have a strong sense of direction  and strategic vision. Since safety is a key  theme, 95% felt they were well informed  about our health and safety results but  the results tell us that we need to improve  communication internally. Working with unions In 2011 we engaged in social dialogue   with our employees in other ways too.   For example, we entered into new collective  bargaining agreements in Brazil, Belgium,  and France. Since commercial pressures  regularly affect engagement, 2011 saw  some challenging conversations with   trade unions and our employees in Brazil,   France and Belgium regarding early  retirement plans and voluntary separation.  We respect the difficult decisions by many  who volunteered for early retirement or  separation. We are doing everything we   can to help these employees transition   to their next steps.  Number of Aperam exempts who   feel they are well informed about   health and safety results 95% France Belgium Brazil Others 19 27 % 40 14 Stainless Steel & Electrical Steel Services & Solutions Alloys & Specialties BioEnerga Others 58 % 27 10 32 Employees by region Employees by operating segment At Aperam we believe that   one of our most sustainable  and competitive advantages  is that, at all levels of the  company, we learn faster   than our competitors Johanna Van Sevenant, Head of Sustainability It was a true pleasure to  see such strong ingenuity  to find new solutions;   the value of this Challenge  is unquestionable. Francies Diet, the main auditor   of the 2011 challenge  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  14 Agility We empower communities to develop  themselves, especially through   the education of youth enabling  them to choose a variety of careers. Ingenuity We support educational and  entrepreneur programmes in Brazil   to develop the next generation   of innovative ideas. Leadership Our Aperam Acesita Foundation   is one of the most respected NGOs  in South America. Community involvement and neighbour relations are strongly linked to the commercial  success of Aperam. Without community engagement we could miss an opportunity to  help form the skilled people of tomorrow. In todays interconnected world, open dialogue  with neighbours helps us manage risks that affect our social licence to operate.  How we manage this  From Brazil to Europe, we try to preserve   a human scale in all relationships and   go beyond the transactional relations   often found in corporate risk management.  Many local communities are dependent on  our operations so we manage our approach  openly, and with care. Community can mean  the wider populace in a region, or a close  neighbour. Our approach to community  relations is rooted firmly at grass-roots levels,  guided by our own values, as well as other  frameworks such as the UN Global Compact. Community welfare and environmental  health are key issues for Aperam.   For example, we lead one of the most  respected foundations in South America;  and we monitor and manage pollutants   and engage openly with those affected  by our operations. Further, in line with  our strong safety culture, we want all  employees and contractors to go home   safe – and keep the safety message alive  when they get there.      Sponsorship and social investment should  catalyse change, and we want to empower  people to take ownership of opportunities  to better themselves.  Our Aperam Acesita Foundation in Brazil  is highly visible and accessible. Formally  established in 1994, it sponsors education,  culture, social empowerment and  environmental programmes. The Acesita name  is well-known to communities and employees,  and refers to a former sponsor company.  Our Brazilian operations have a Corporate  Responsibility Committee monitoring  community impacts. In Italy, France and  Poland, for example, we work with local  governments and others on education and  infrastructure projects key to local economic  growth and community health. In all cases,  our corporate programmes target root causes  of economic and social issues, so contributing  to the economic growth of these regions  and the ongoing business success of Aperam.  People in our communities Above: Aperam BioEnergia employee, Graciano Vieira da Silva, on the eucalyptus seedling nursery, Brazil.  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  15 People in our communities What happened in 2011 In 2011, we indirectly distributed   US$6,454 million to the economy worldwide  through tax payments, wages and salaries,  contracts, community infrastructure  investments and research and development  spending. We invested in the community  through corporate volunteering: over   800 of our Brazilian colleagues gave   400 hours of their time to help develop   and improve 28 local charities. To introduce ourselves to the communities  in our Brazilian operations, we established  a Social Dialogue Programme in the Steel  Valley (Timteo and environs), comprising  tours of our Timteo plant and face-to-face  meetings with employees families, trade  associations, customers, local leaders and  the city council. The hard work has led to  greater trust in Aperam and we share more  and better information through publications,  meetings and online.  The Aperam Acesita Foundation In 2011 we sponsored projects vital to   the overall health, safety and wellbeing   of the community, for lasting, positive   local development. We run a small team   on the ground, day-to-day, including  colleagues who are skilled in stakeholder  relations. In 2011, the foundation invested  US$2.4m (BRL$4.4m), benefiting over  90,000 people. Our two Brazilian sites show a strong   sense of interdependency with the  500,000 people in our host communities.   In 2011 the Foundation met local leaders to  explain what we do and Aperams response  to their concerns. The key workstreams   are shown below.  Meanwhile in Europe... Activities in 2011 centred on partnerships  with other industries, local government,  and civil society to promote socioeconomic  development in the region. In Italy, we  hosted meetings with local government,  civil society, and our employees to   discuss the social welfare of the city  of Podenzano and related corporate  volunteering opportunities. Where are we going? 	 Monitoring community risks  affecting licence to operate 	 Review all community  engagement initiatives by 2013 	 Review local supply chain  programmes in Brazil The Aperam Acesita Foundation – Key workstreams Building a steel workforce The foundation administers the Stainless Steel Institute,   which aims to promote the economy of the Steel Valley by creating jobs in stainless steel.   In 2011, 20,000 hours of training were offered, benefiting around 180 people in the community.  The Vocational Training Centre, in partnership with the National Service of Industrial Learning,  offered training in management, commerce and marketing. To date, around 5,700 students   have completed it and in 2011, 54 apprentices were trained by Aperam. Next generation entrepreneurs The foundations entrepreneurship programme directly  supports students in their second year of high school. The hands-on training looks at running   a successful business and includes business planning, raising capital, marketing and finance.  Local education on the rise Partnership projects work on improving student attendance   and teacher training. In 2011, through one programme, 950 teachers from 35 schools were trained   in Timteo alone. In another, 600 educators developed improvements in teaching in local schools.  Environmental and safety education Practical training is offered to improve water  conservation, air pollution and biodiversity. Timteos Transitolndia Project sponsored 1,200  school students at 20 schools in a traffic safety course. The foundation also partnered with the  Military Police of Minas Gerais, the Timteo Town Hall and others to provide safe driving training.  Better nutrition and health We are proud to support initiatives on health such as the  Sustainable Living programme educating adults on dietary health and household budgets.   In 2011, the courses reached 178 community members and employees. Also in 2011 we   ran educational courses for 38 young people recovering from alcohol or drug dependencies. Promoting local art and culture With local artists and cultural organisations, we promote cultural  heritage. In 2011, Aperam Acesita Foundation supported 170 cultural events, reaching 41,000 people. Genk community relations  Open dialogue with local residents  helps us manage noise, dust emissions  and other issues. To control noise and  dust emissions further at our Genk  site in 2011, we tightened discipline  in site equipment usage, added new  monitoring arrangements (including  audio-visual) and received strong  cooperation by contractors. The work  reduced dust emissions by around 50%.  It is boosted by our Fair Play policy where  every employee takes responsibility  for performance. This can include  active incident response or immediate  maintenance of filters. The result?   Stronger community relations. Isbergues local  development  Like Genk, Isbergues is in an economically  impoverished region. Best practice at  Genk helped improve communications  with locals on the sensitive topic of  dust emissions that contain very fine  particles of lead. In 2011 results show  that our dust emissions contain 50% less  than the legal allowable minimum. The  work involved closely cooperating with  the regional government departments  with whom we are exploring economic  development opportunities for the  region. This result has been achieved by  technical improvements and investments  since 2009 and by continuous  improvement on site. The result?   Stronger community relations. Education  Culture Environment Social promotion/ empowerment 768 473 $000 692 512 The Aperam Acesita Foundation –   contributions by theme  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  16 integrated  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  17 Agility The environment features highly  in continuous improvement work,  community projects, research  and development, and the  groups Health and Safety Day. Ingenuity Environmental technology  is found across the Aperam  group, from the alternative  charcoal fuel in Brazil to the  new waste water treatment  plant in France. Leadership We are recognised for   the legacy of resource  efficiency initiatives   over recent decades. Stainless steel has many properties vital to modern lifestyle,   medicine, industry and infrastructure. It contains recycled raw materials,  is itself recyclable, and its supreme durability is a key attribute. Environmental responsibility is core to our commercial innovations   and our production processes. We work hard to ensure our house   is in order, to comply with regulations and to meet the expectations   of stakeholders. Our environmental management is well developed   and we strive to include environmental risk in other programmes.  We like to think big and wide: we have changed our Brazilian fuel  supply to include eucalyptus-based charcoal; electric arc furnaces  in Europe provide production and resource efficiencies; we invest  in cleaner technology. But also we are clear that performance  improvements come from our colleagues sheer hard work, collaborative  continuous improvement initiatives, and stakeholder engagement. Environmental stewardship in action 	 Undersea gas pipelines 	 Components in  street-level substations  	 Parts for hybrid vehicles 	 High-speed rotating  motors and drives 	 Hydro-power turbines 	 Wind turbines 	 SolarStyl, for solar panels  Where did you see us last? Supporting energy Products made of stainless steel and related alloys help   save energy, contribute to renewable energy systems and secure  safe transmission of energy sources:   Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  18 Environmental stewardship in action How we manage this We operate strictly in compliance with  regulations and our environmental  stewardship adds value to the business.  Our Environmental Policy commits us   to a long-term approach to resource  efficiency and sustainability, and links  clearly to quality assurance.  Responsibility for our Environmental Policy  and programmes ultimately rests with   our Chief Technical Officer. Each plant has  an environmental coordinator responsible  for delivery at the local level. They report  to the head of the plant and ensure that  the environmental management system  complies with ISO 14001, day-to-day.   Our main plants1 are all certified to ISO 14001.   Regular internal and external audits  and monitoring ensure that Aperams  Environmental Policy is delivered. Increasingly, our employees, customers,  investors, communities, suppliers and   others are seeing how hard we work on this.  We adopt a long-term, pragmatic approach  to managing issues, based on respect,  engagement and local operating conditions.  Our annual Continuous Improvement (CI)  Challenge is a great example of such local  engagement. For complex issues this  approach comes into its own. What happened in 2011 Energy consumption and efficiency improved After many years of managing our process  efficiency, we continue to find ways to make  savings. This cuts costs and helps protect us  against price and supply volatilities. In 2011,  we consumed 18.3m GJ of direct energy  (Europe: 6.9m GJ, Brazil: 11.4m GJ) and 21.0m  GJ of indirect energy (Europe: 12.7m GJ, Brazil:  7.6m GJ)2. In 2011, per tonne of product  shipped, our direct and indirect energy use  was 22.5GJ, and our energy-saving initiatives  saved 2.4m GJ. The biggest wins, via our  Continuous Improvement projects, relate to  efficiencies in thermal tunnel burners, cooling  systems, insulation of annealing furnaces  and blast furnace gas management and  re-use. Our Isbergues plant has sector-leading  annealing and pickling process efficiency;   in Brazil our coke-to-charcoal fuel switch  saved 1.3m GJ in 2011; we also switched from  LPG to piped-in natural gas at the same site.  Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Emissions  In 2011 we emitted 2.0m tonnes of CO2  equivalent (tCO2e): 1.7m tCO2e being direct  and 0.3m tCO2e being indirect emissions2.  This equates to 1.15 tCO2e per tonne of  product shipped. The 1.19m tons of carbon  offset provided in 2011 by our eucalyptus  plantation, which supplies our charcoal fuel,  is not included in our calculations3. Water Management  We systematically monitor and improve  water efficiency. We aim to avoid risk  relating to water supply disruption and  cost. Whilst our recent focus has been on  alternative fuels in Brazil, we are increasing  our focus on water management. In 2011  at the group level, for each ton of product  produced we used 4.01 m3 of water. The  total amount of water consumed in our  manufacturing process was 22.6million m3,  which is a slight decrease (2.5%) from the  previous year (for an equivalent production).  However, as water consumption varies  greatly across regions, we adopt local water  management strategies in our regions. Ninety five per cent of our fresh water is  sourced from canals, rivers, and reservoirs.  The rest is drawn from groundwater, rainwater  and reused grey water. To date we have  closed–loop water systems at all of our  main production plants: our water recycling  rate in 2011 was 93%. We are revising our  water-related data collection approach.  Materials use Living up to our value of ingenuity drives  our efforts to increase the efficiency   of materials use. We used a total of 3.1m  tonnes of materials in 2011, around 11%  of which are on-site materials such as dust,  slag, grindings and process scrap. Around 40% of raw materials used are from  recycled, post-industrial sources. In Europe  where our steel production uses electric   arc furnaces, the percentage is around 76%.  A number of eco-efficiency projects saved  other materials in 2011, such as paper   in tool packaging. 1. Chtelet, Genk, Gueugnon, Imphy, Isbergues,  Timteo, Jequitinhonha, Firminy and Pont de Roide.  2. Direct energy use is energy consumed by Aperam  and our products and services. Indirect energy   use is used for electricity and steam production.  Regional split excludes 0.7 GJ for other operations.  3. Total emissions incorporating the offset from   the eucalyptus plantation is 831,121 tCO2e and   would result in 0.475 tCO2e/tonne shipped.   4. Please see p7 of the Aperam Annual Report 2011. Aperam BioEnergia Aperam BioEnergia, the company  that provides biomass in the form  of charcoal from eucalyptus plants,  is a wholly-owned subsidiary of  Aperam4. In 2011, our Brazilian plant  increased its consumption of charcoal  to around 350,000t each year when  Blast Furnace #2 was converted from  coke firing to 100% charcoal. Aperam  BioEnergia will provide an adequately  stable supply of charcoal (biomass)   to support the companys operations  for the foreseeable future.  Energy consumption and efficiency  Water use and recycling  Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions  Ozone-depleting emissions  Local air emissions   Materials used and recycled  Solid waste, waste water  Long-term view  Precautionary approach  Eco-efficiency   as business value  Product focus: durability   and recycling  Training and awareness  Transparency  Production certified to ISO 14001 management standard  Primary energy consumption (GJ) and intensity (GJ /tonne)  Water use (m3) and intensity (m3/tonne)  Carbon dioxide emissions (t) and intensity (t/tonne produced)  Percentage of recycled material (pre- and post-consumer)  Total environmental and energy capital expenditure (US$) Environmental  Policy Key Indicators Key Issues  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  19 Environmental stewardship in action Local air emissions Managing the effects of air emissions on local communities is a primary focus for us.   Doing so promotes healthy conditions for employees and local communities. Since 2005 we have been working with stakeholders south of our Genk site on dust  emissions that contain very fine particles of nickel and chromium, contributing to local   air pollution. We work with residents and government departments, we offer open days,   publish a residents magazine and run daily briefings on site. These efforts led to a   40%-60% drop in emissions (per ton and in total) and strengthened community relations. Air emissions 2011 Emissions (tonnes) Intensity (t/t product shipped) SOx (SO2) 410.0 0.23 NOx 1,694.3 0.97 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) 40.7 0.02 Dust (ducted) 328.9 0.19 *The data on local emissions are best estimates and are not audited. Data cover all main production facilities except Jequitinhonha. *Note: Indirect energy source is 100% electrical. Indirect energy data include service centres and an estimate  covering other sites and offices. Regional split excludes 0.7 GJ for other operations. Where are we going? By the end of 2012:  	 Revise environmental targets 	 Improve local emissions data  collection and reporting 	 Complete compliance with the   EU REACH regulations 	 Review environmental  compliance for our arc furnaces 	 Complete clean technology  expansion at flagship Gueugnon  plant, France Investing in clean  technology at Imphy A new water treatment unit was  installed in 2011 to allow a closed  loop system which reduces water use  by 35% (from 2010). The investment  saves a million cubic metres of water  a year. Previously, the process water  came from recaptured rainwater and  grey water recycling; the remainder  came from civil water sources. Iron Ores Various Nickel Scrap Ferrochrome, Chrome  Ore, Chrome Scrap Other Additives  & Fluxes Coke, Coal &  Charcoal Carbon Steel Scrap Other Materials,  incl Sinter We reused 11% of this  back into our processes (Percentages are rounded) 24.6 24.7 12.8 11.1 10.2 9.7 6.7 % Europe Brazil 63 37 % Direct Energy Indirect  Energy* 47 53 Natural Gas Charcoal Coke Oil Other Gases 13 43 % % 29 12 3 We used 22.6m m3 of water in 2011 Total Energy Consumption 2011 Direct Energy Breakdown 2011 We used 3.1m tonnes of materials in 2011 Agile with waste Around 17kg of sludge arises per tonne  of steel produced at our Brazilian plant.  A sludge reuse project with the ceramic  brick industry has strong commercial  promise with the development of  a new type of product. The sludge  replaces clay, a finite natural resource.   As well as complying with all relevant  standards, the resulting bricks are around  50% stronger than traditional ones.  Not bad for sludge. Waste and waste water In 2011, waste sent for disposal amounted  to 75.3 ktons, a third of which (23.4 ktons)  was hazardous waste. Non-hazardous waste  is mainly composed of sludge (36.2 ktons)  and dust (12.4 ktons). If we include reused  by-products arising in our processes in  2011, the total produced was 1,308.5 ktons  (down 3% from 1,349.4 ktons in 2010). In 2011 we discharged 18.6m m3 of waste  water. We recorded a slight decrease of   3.2% due mainly to the new water treatment  station at Imphy, saving 1.1m m3 and the  temporary suspension of plant at Isbergues  that saved 0.46m m3. We monitor water  quality criteria such as chemical oxygen  demand, total suspended solids and chromium  content. The quality of waste water released  met legal requirements across our sites.  Protecting against ozone depletion To accord with the Montreal Protocol to  phase out CFCs and other ozone-depleters,  we track our use of substances such   as refrigerants and CO2 gas at site level.   The data are not yet centralised however. Biodiversity Preserving biodiversity is part of Aperams  approach to environmental stewardship,   for example wildlife conservation around our  operations. In Brazil, our commitment to the  preservation of biodiversity takes the shape  of a Green Area Management programme  which was launched in 2004 and has both  preservation and environmental education  aspects. We are committed to protecting  the 2,500ha of forest near our Timteo  plant and have managed projects there since  2004. In the Jequitinhonha Valley we run  local community environmental training  projects, such as the new Forquilha Center  (benefiting 76 families) and an urban  apicultural project to stimulate local jobs  and protect bee populations.  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  20 focused  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  21 Agility Widely renowned and highly  responsive teams for customer  service and distribution. Ingenuity Customers benefit from robust  technical support relating to  specific properties of stainless  steel and alloys. Leadership Unrivalled collaboration with  customers on product design,  from specialist seminar workshops  to hands-on testing.  In 2011, Aperam shipped its products to customers in 174 countries.  Our customers benefit from a global, integrated distribution network  and on-site technical teams amounting to a clear focus on service,  partnership and customer satisfaction. The people at Aperam have  always focused on authentic customer collaboration: an effort to   create solid benefits from a way of working that values the relationship,  responsibility, interaction, loyalty and hands-on technical service.   For many years this has helped make us unique in the market.  We develop new products and we work with customers on bespoke,  specialist products. Aperams investments in research and development  in 2011 amounted to US$20m.  Our engagement with our automotive customers is a fine example of  working together to improve product quality and commercial approach.  Further, the case for investing in life-cycle management is important   for the markets we serve. This expectation is driven by the development  of process and product related regulations. Customer experience Where did you see us last? Travelling safely (and aesthetically) Stainless steel has been the choice for transport over the years.   It has advantages that make it the material of choice for many   transportation technologies: durability, long service life,  ease-of-maintenance. Wherever corrosion-resistance, design  flexibility or mechanical tolerance play an important role, stainless  steel fits the bill. Indeed, it has helped the pace of development   in rail and bus technologies, as new grades help save cost and   yet maintain high mechanical strength. Youll see our products   in So Paulos new subway station structures, faades, railings,  furniture, elevators, bins, maps and, yes, trains. What versatility!  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  22 Customer experience Amazing qualities The most compelling message to customers  is surely on the qualities of stainless steel  and alloys. Various individual products are  made out of stainless steel and they have  their own properties, functions and life-cycles.  But stainless steel itself has an astonishing  array of qualities. Durability and resilience – well-known  corrosion and heat resistance, outstanding  mechanical properties at high temperatures.  Cleanliness – no biofilm remains after  cleaning a stainless surface. Environmental credibility – its endlessly  recyclable. Scrap collection infrastructure  is well developed. Product safety – its not bad for you –   no negative chemical or physical effects.  Aesthetics – often relevant to stainless  steel lifestyle and industrial products as  well as high-end architectural applications  for example. Amazing products  Flat stainless steel products represent  a significant part of our sales. We also  offer specialist products such as stainless  specialities, nickel alloys, magnetic and  controlled expansion alloys, superalloys,  corrosion alloys, electrical steel,  special-carbon steel and specialty   stainless grades. Our products are used   in diverse industries, see the chart below. How we work We organise our sales and marketing  function around a sales network in daily  contact with customers. Aperams central  teams direct commercial policy and group  marketing. In this way we understand daily  customer demands and future market trends. Naturally, customer relations and quality   are of superior importance to Aperam.   For existing, bespoke and new products,  core to our quality management is our  Continuous Improvement programme,  ongoing defect detection training and  quality audits. Aperam also holds a  number of certifications such as ISO 9001,  ISO 14001, ISO/TS 16949, certified by  independent auditors. This guarantees   the quality of our products.  Aperam aims to inspire confidence and  comparability of products through life-cycle  assessment (LCA). We share the policy  positions of the International Stainless Steel  Federation (ISSF). We regularly work with  ISSF and other technical industry bodies.   Our investments in research and development  (US$20m in 2011) lead us to work closely  with customers on product development.  A focus on product safety Product safety is comprehensively regulated  in our industry. Our stainless steel is made  in accordance with international standards  developed under the direction of the  ASTM, the UNS and the European Union.  For example, the ASTM Standards are used  in classifying, evaluating and specifying  the material, chemical, mechanical and  metallurgical properties of the different  types of steels. We provide health and safety  information on products and materials.  Technical data sheets describe a products  chemical and mechanical properties.  Occupational Exposure Limits for substances  contained in stainless steel are available.  Advice is also available on safety measures  to be used when handling stainless steel,   for example during welding. Electrical Steels  Electrical steel comprises specialist  grades for customers seeking energy  efficiency improvements. One form,  grain oriented steel, is used in the  construction of static electrical  machines or transformers. Its sister  product, non-grain oriented steel   is used in rotating electrical machines  such as hydrogenerators, electrical  motors, hermetic motors, compressors  for refrigerators, air conditioners,  freezers, drills, household appliance  transformers and energy meters.  Such grades allow the high  performance energy efficiency  expected by customers. Services & Solutions Our customers rely on our international service and  distribution network. Core to it are the direct sales network,  the service centres, and the transformation assets such   as tubists or precision processing. We offer integrated  networks in South America and Europe via 33 sales offices,  19 Service Centres and 10 transformation plants and facilities. Alloys & Specialties Specialist solutions and diversified  products. The key facts:  	 Second largest European nickel  (Ni) alloys manufacturer 	 Ni alloys and special stainless  products in various forms and  grades with specific properties 	 World-leading products for  specialist applications 	 We work closely with our R&D,  meltshop and logistics teams   to provide the best solutions 	 Comprehensive service and  logistics operations.  Meeting customer requirements Energy &  Chemicals Industry General Industry Building &  Construction Automotive &  Transportation Catering &  Appliance Others 17 14 % 12 34 3 20 Stainless steel consumption by end user  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  23 Continuous Improvement  programme We strive constantly to improve  our service. A great example is the  Management Committee-sponsored  Commercial Excellence Project which  aims to perfect customer service  on R&D, production, technical and  logistics matters. Independent  auditors at our Pont de Roide plant  were impressed by the teams  delivering improvements on safety,  customer satisfaction and quality.  See p12 for more. Great collaborations Customers are key stakeholders. We work  with them constantly on technical solutions,  from shop-floor to executive suite. We know  them, we understand their interests and  risks, we track wider issues with them,   we communicate openly and we respond   to the outcomes of the engagement.  A standard approach to customer service  is for an Aperam engineer to be on site  regularly with a customer. Our engagement  with our automotive customers is a fine  example of engagement and has led to  better delivery consistency, better flexibility  on terms and eBusiness service options.  An example of our response to wider issues  is the development of electrical steels.  Evolving regulations, increased energy costs  and a focus on energy efficiency have led  to the development and refinement of this  specialty product.  Another is our Stainless Academy. To help  customers work with our Kara range, we   set up the Stainless Academy to share our  expertise. Our Kara brand groups a range   of stainless steel grades which are less  dependent on the volatile prices of alloying  elements. Kara grades are highly technical  and share the characteristics and corrosion  resistance of high nickel grades. Since   2008, technicians, operators, production  line managers, engineers and quality  professionals have joined our academy  workshops in France. Topics include the  detection of chlorides, ferrous pollution   and major demonstrations in the welding  hall. Its also perfect for visiting our  industrial facilities too. In 2011 we ran   14 such events, each lasting 2.5 days.   To date, 520 people have been trained,   from 170 customer organisations  throughout Europe. The 2012 schedule   is underway with additional touring  workshops going to Poland and Turkey. Customer experience Welcome to Aperam We invite customers such as Toyota  and ArcelorMittal to the Continuous  Improvement (CI) Challenge each year.  As part of our quality work, we invite  customers from around the world to  visit our plants. We supply Chinese  automotive parts manufacturers who  themselves are tier one suppliers to  the major car makers: Chinese company  Minth Group visited Gueugnon last year  as part of a quality audit. In place in China  we have a service centre located 130km  from Shanghai. The expectations in  terms of quality in China are now equal  to those in the US. Superb result in automotive with VW Following an audit in 2010 by Volkswagen, Aperam was selected to make the   moulds used for the manufacture of exhaust pipes for brands such as Audi A3,  Golf 7 and Skoda Otavia. We scored very highly in the audit and beat some serious  competition to win the contract.  The advantage of working with the automotive sector is that it is a springboard   for further progress in an extremely demanding industry – they really challenge   their suppliers Xavier Gagey, Automotive Sales Director. Where are we going? 	 Implement action plan in  response to our customer  survey by end 2012 	 Launch second phase of  Commercial Excellence Project  in 2012, including common  performance monitoring   for the commercial teams Left: Aperam South America supplies stainless steel to rail and subway cars in Brazil. The wagons use   cold rolled 301LN stainless steel, with different levels of resistance for several applications, such as structure,  side panels and roofs. Above: We share our expertise with customers at our Stainless Academy. Further, Aperams laboratory at the Pont de  Roide site assists customers in specific product  development projects. It has specific tools such  as an electronic microscope, spectrometer  and microsound. The three sections of the  laboratory include metallurgy trials and physical  testing, dimensional metrology to finely  calibrate measuring equipment and physical  and chemical control and analysis.  Customer satisfaction  Customer satisfaction is a key performance  indicator which we survey annually in South  America and every two years in Europe.   The surveys are independently facilitated and  based on interviews with customer contacts.  Our Customer Score Card tracks performance  internally and each month the Board of  Directors and the commercial managers assess  the results. We evaluate product quality,   order processing, customer service, complaints,  technical assistance and logistics.  In 2011, on overall satisfaction Aperam Europe  score 7.1 out of ten (from 170 respondents);  Aperam South America saw a strong increase  from 2010 with scoring 8.2 (106 respondents).  The results place us very competitively   in international benchmarks.  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  24 versatile  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  25 Agility Aperam Innovation   teams work constantly   with our clients to bring   the best options and  possibilities to product   and market development. Ingenuity Innovation opens a world   of possibilities. Stainless   steel does not require   coating and is self-healing!   If its surface is scratched   or damaged, a passive layer,  only a few atoms thick,  instantaneously reforms.  Leadership From its discovery early in the  20th century, stainless steel  has become an integral part   of our lives. Used primarily for  its corrosion resistance – which  sets it apart from all other forms  of steel – stainless steel is also  found in applications where  strength, innovation, versatility  and aesthetics are important. We offer the most comprehensive and innovative range of stainless  steel and alloys solutions in the market. We adapt to specialist customer  needs with products that meet diverse needs in extreme environments.  Our unbeatable research and development facilities in Timteo,   Isbergues and Imphy are home to 131 developers of high-end applications.  Whilst our product innovations aim to ensure profitability they also contribute  wider societal benefits such as durability, recyclability and cleanliness. Our primary developmental aim is to create steel solutions with our   main customers. Our second major research and development activity   is new, lower-cost energy-saving industrial products. Innovating solutions Where did you see us last? On buildings, sculptures, landscapes Stainless steel is a compelling choice for diverse architecture.   It allows creativity with a wide range of surface finishes. It provides  long service life, attractiveness and versatility. Inventive building  design that blends stainless steel allows natural light, giving users   a feeling of comfort and wellbeing. Look for stainless steel in buildings,  public spaces and the Olympic park. The Atomium near Brussels   is a great example: sourced from our Genk plant, the stainless steel  skin of the Atomium makes this 102 metre high building stand out   in the Belgian landscape.  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  26 Lifestyle: Energy Aperams products help the transition  to a low carbon economy. For example,  our electrical steels are seeing further  innovations developed in our Timteo  Research Center. New production  techniques allow our products to achieve  even higher efficiencies (akin to high- magnetic permeability grain-oriented  electrical steel) in appliances. Aperam   has invested to further improve grain  oriented (GO) steels, and 2011 marked   the beginning of a new generation   of non grain-oriented (NGO) steels used,   for example, in large-rotating motors   and hybrid vehicle technologies.  Aperam Alloys has also patented   SolarStyl, a ferritic stainless frame for   fully-integrated photovoltaic panels on  buildings. Alternatives such as aluminium  tend to have limited warranties and   less regard for mechanical and electrical  safety. SolarStyl is cheaper and quicker   (and safer) to install. Of course, it is durable,  recyclable, fully guaranteed, weather  resistant and aesthetically pleasing.   To date more than 2,000 SolarStyl modules  have been installed in France. We produce magnetic components for  inverters, metal/glass sealing alloys for solar  power systems, iron nickel alloys for thin film  photovoltaic solar cells and polymer-alloys  for photovoltaic casings.  Lifestyle: Health and home The outstanding cleanliness of stainless  steel means that no biofilm or bacterial  residue can build up; neither does it change  the taste or appearance of foodstuffs.   It enables the catering industry to ensure  food safety, and other sectors to be assured  that our products meet the EU Restriction  of Hazardous Substances Directive. The  Alloys team at Imphy in France have even  developed new magnetic materials for  cooking utensils with built-in temperature  controls, as a safety feature.  Stainless steel is a perfect material for  everyday objects at home, and is popular in  washing machines, cookware, refrigerators,  microwaves and water boilers. Further, the  discovery of Invar – an alloy not affected by  expansion or contraction with temperature  changes – has allowed innovations in  bi-metallic products, common in household  appliances such as irons, air conditioning  systems, ovens and greenhouses. Innovating solutions Combating corrosion  All metals, except the precious ones, in their natural state are extracted from ores  and tend to revert to their stable state known as their oxide form. Metal corrosion  is an electro-chemical reaction at the interface between metal and its surrounding  environment. Steel is an alloy of iron and carbon. Contrary to carbon steel, the presence   of a minimum of 10.5% chromium in stainless steel provides corrosion resistance.   On contact with oxygen, a chromium oxide layer is formed on the surface of the material;  this passive layer protects it and has the particular ability to self repair. There are   five main types of corrosion and we advise our clients on how to design their products   to minimise attack! Our products contribute to societys  diverse needs. The mechanical properties,  cleanliness, corrosion resistance and  durability enhance performance in  healthcare, education, transport, energy  efficiency, infrastructure and lifestyle.   We list in this section how our products   and innovations contribute.  Since people are central to our business,  we ensure careful collaboration of research  and development (R&D) teams, engineers  on site, technical managers, industrial end  users and leading research organisations.  R&D expenditure in 2011 amounted   to US$20m (15m).  We are proud of our sector-leading   R&D capacity. Our legacy of expertise is  recognised in the construction sector, the  automotive industry and the white goods  and appliance industries. Solutions and society:  stainless and alloys at work This page above left: SolarStyl in use on a   3kw installation in an exposed location, France.   Page 27, left: In the iconic ArcelorMittal Orbit  structure in the UK, 25t of stainless steel are used,  mainly for staircases and handrails. Our top innovations of late... 1. Grade K45 ferritic steel (20% chromium):  for wide-ranging applications for superior  corrosion resistance  2. A new, two-phase microstructure  duplex grade: exceptional corrosion  resistance and mechanical properties,  mainly used in oil and gas processing,  desalination, chemical production and  water treatment 3. SolarStyl: used in photovoltaic panel arrays 4. Iron, nickel and stainless steel alloys:  for generator technology, renewable  energies and fuel cells Steel: Formation of  iron oxide –  rust Stainless Steel: Formation of  chromium oxide – passive lm Fe + C Fe + C + Cr 10.5% O2 Reaction of steel and stainless steel   in contact with air or water  Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  27 Infrastructure Stainless steel functions in the most  severe environments. It has a high physical  and thermal shock resistance and is  ranked A2s1d0 for fire resistance, with no  toxic fume emissivity. Since its infinitely  recyclable and recycled, the cost-conscious  construction sector, with its razor-thin  margins, often sees recovery rates close  to 100%. Cost levels of stainless steel  transformation are comparable with  traditional options, and stainless steel  roofing gives an excellent quality versus  price ratio. Choosing stainless steel offers   a long-term guarantee.  Stainless steel also permits a freedom of  creativity and architectural design second  to none; it is also used for noise reduction  shields and flood control gates.  Aperams Foamglas compact warm   roofs are used in new build and renovation  projects and go well in complex or   shallow pitched stainless steel roofs.   Foamglas contributes to the energy  efficiency and indoor comfort of a building:  it has excellent thermal and acoustic  insulation properties. It suits regions  with climatic extremes, is completely  weather-tight and is ideal for buildings   with extremes of relative humidity. Transport  Our best known transport applications   use Kara ferritic steel exhaust systems,  body structure, decoration, bus and coaches  and aeronautics. Our exhaust systems are  extremely resistant to high temperatures,  have an excellent service life and meet  stringent needs of the major brands and new  environmental legislation. Since stainless  steel can be rolled thin and is very ductile,   it suits the lightweighting goals in automotive  design driven by high fuel prices and  emissions regulations. Additional benefits  include greater impact absorption and load  bearing capacity and strength. We work with  US and EU auto sectors on using austenitic  stainless steel for body parts; Kara ferritic  grades are aesthetically pleasing, easy to  maintain, and resistant to corrosion: they are  a top choice for the car industry mainly for  cold and hot exhaust system compounds. In the aeronautics sector our specialist   AFK type Iron cobalt alloy allows light weight,  heat resistant design options. It enables a  new approach to energy distribution and has  lower production costs. The high permeability  of Imphys magnetic alloys make them  ideal for shielding against low frequency  electromagnetic interference (EMI).   EMI can affect health, safety and security.  For example some medical sensors are so  sensitive that they require protection from  the Earths magnetic field. If the source  cannot be removed then shielding is needed. Innovating solutions Bus and coach safety Transport providers face tightening  rules on safety and fuel economy.  The energy absorption properties of  stainless steel help make travel safer.  In a crash stainless steel absorbs  greater impact forces and resists high  temperatures in the event of fire.  Benefits also include long service life,  weight savings and load capacity.  Safer pipelines Our experts developed a specialist alloy  thats perfect for piping Liquefied Natural  Gas through ultra-deep sea pipelines.   We thus help to control the environmental  and safety risks in offshore transport  of substances with high H2S, SO2,  sulphur, CO2, chlorides and acid gases.  The product also improves fuel tanker  haulage safety and life-cycle costs. A cradle-to-grave  approach Governments worldwide have begun to  recognise the need for resource efficiency.  In Europe, policy-makers have launched   a wide-reaching policy programme to  looking at ways to enhance EU programmes  for eco-design, eco-labelling and green  public procurement. The case for investing in life-cycle  management is becoming clearer. Process  and product related regulation is evolving  in our markets: examples include Integrated  Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC),  Integrated Product Policy (IPP), End of Life  Directives (such as End-of-Life-Vehicles) and  Environmental Product Declarations (EPD).  Life-cycle assessment (LCA) helps integrate  sustainable development into management  systems and product development.   Doing so help us to assess and compare  the environmental credentials of products  in a holistic way. Data from all production  processes are collated so that a clear profile  of the production route, and the contribution  of each stage can be assessed. Automobile  manufacturers have hundreds of component  LCAs and several full vehicle LCAs and they  use them in the decision-making process for  the best environmental option of the vehicle.  The construction industry, process industry  and medical industry do the same. A full cradle-to-grave study looks at the  production from raw material (cradle),  through the use phase, and end-of-life  (grave). The ISSF has developed a life-cycle  project on cradle-to-gate, analysing data  from raw material extraction to the stainless  steel product as it is at the factory gate.   This allows the user to track what happens  in the use phase. The International Standards ISO 14040  series outlines the approach to take  including the necessity for independent  third party validation. Where are we going? 	 Promote the development and  marketing of less expensive alloys 	 Ramp up Aperams business   in oil and gas, water,  desalination, photovoltaics,   and sustainable construction  	 Intensify collaborations with  universities and utility companies   Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  28 The scope of information and data in this report covers operations in Europe and South America for the 2011 financial year. We have nine sites  for which production data are collected (unless otherwise stated): Chtelet, Genk, Gueugnon, Isbergues, Timteo, Imphy, Firminy, Pont de Roide,  Jequitinhonha. Data come from our operational environmental reporting system, our human resources function, legal affairs and our finance reporting  system. Water recycling calculations include estimates for Gueugnon, Imphy and Firminy. Local air emissions data exclude Jequitinhonha and Firminy.  With the exception of electricity use data, our data do not currently cover Aperams offices, Service & Solutions or Alloys & Specialities operations.  Our CO2 data derive from direct and indirect energy use, and account for our Brazilian offset: an asset that became wholly owned in July 2011;  comparability from period to period is not affected as this is our first report. Our environmental data system is guided by ISO 14064, IPCC 2006,  the WRI-WBCSD GHG Protocol and the World Steel Association. Diversity data exclude trainees. This report does not cover any joint venture  operations or activities of partner organisations. The information in this report is subject to internal data management systems and audit.  The report is guided by the principles of report content and quality from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainable Development  Reporting Guidelines (version 3.1). In January 2012, Aperam joined, and presents report content in accordance with the principles of,   the United Nations Global Compact, the worlds largest corporate responsibility initiative with over 8,000 participants in 135 countries.   We will review external independent assurance options for our next report.  About this report, and external reporting frameworks GRI Index guide A complete GRI Index is found online at aperam.com/sustainability;  this summary table serves to illustrate the extent of information  available in it. We self-declare GRI G3.1 Application Level C. GRI G3.1 aspects addressed in full, or in part Introduction, CEOs message, Who are Aperam?  pages 1-3 Strategy and Analysis, Statement from the most senior decision-maker 1.1,   Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 1.2,   Organisational profile 2.1-2.9,   Report parameters 3.1-3.11,   Economic performance, Market presence, Indirect economic impacts Approach to sustainability  pages 4-5 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1-4.4, 4.14-4.15,   Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 1.2,   Disclosures on Management Approach, Business Integrity Safety  pages 6-9 Disclosures on Management Approach  Link between senior remuneration and sustainability KPIs 4.5 Environment  pages 16-19 Disclosures on Management Approach  Materials, Energy, Water, Biodiversity, Emissions, Effluents, and Waste,   Products and Services (environmental benefits of products and services) People  pages 10-13 Disclosures on Management Approach: Labour Practices and Decent Work,  Employment, Labour/Management Relations, Occupational Health and Safety,  Training and Education, Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Human Rights,  Business Integrity, Products and Services (social benefits of products and services) Community  pages 14-15 Disclosures on Management Approach: Society, Organisational profile 2.2 Customers  pages 20-22 Customer satisfaction, Product responsibility: benefits, safety, labelling,  compliance, Brands, products: Organisational profile 2.2 Innovation  pages 24-26 Brands, products: Organisational profile 2.2,   Products and Services (social benefits of products and services) UN Global Compact Communication on Progress The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a framework to guide  sustainable business policy and practices. It seeks to align operations  and strategy with ten principles and to catalyse action. Aperam became  a UNGC signatory in 2012. As part of our report, the table below shows  our Communication on Progress, an annual membership requirement. UNGC 10 Commitments Human Rights Principles 1&2 – Businesses should support and respect the protection   of internationally proclaimed human rights and make sure that they are not  complicit in human rights abuses. Working with our stakeholders page 5; People section How we manage this  page 10 ; Our approach to sustainability page 4, key material issues page 5 Labour Standards Principles 3-6 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the  effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; uphold the elimination  of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, effective abolition of child labour  and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. People section How we manage this page 10; Community section   How we manage this page 14; the Acesita Foundation key programmes, page 15;  Our approach to sustainability page 4 Environment Principles 7-9 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach  to environmental challenges, undertake initiatives to promote greater  environmental responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion   of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment section How we manage this and Aperam BioEnergia profile,   page 18; What happened in 2011 page 18-19; Imphy case study page 19;   Agile with waste case study page 19; Electrical steels case study page 22;  Customer section How we work page 22; Society and solutions page 26;   other aspects of our products page 27; Cradle to grave approach page 27;   Raw materials subsection page 3; Our approach to sustainability page 4,   Key material issues page 5 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms,  including extortion and bribery. Business integrity as a key material issue, page 5; People section,   How we manage this (Code of conduct, anti-corruption) page 12 For more information about the UNGC,   please see unglobalcompact.org For our complete GRI Index,   please see aperam.com/sustainability  Glossary of stainless steel Alloy – A combination of two or more metals, or a metal and a   non-metal. Alloys offer advantages that the pure metals cannot  offer on their own. Annealing – Annealing is a heat treatment process which reforms  the steels grain structure. This is typically done after cold working.  Austenitic Stainless Steel – High in nickel and chromium,  austenitics provide a superior corrosion resistance; known for  their ductility and weldability as well as for an ability to withstand  extremely low temperatures. Chromium (Cr) – Chromium is a hard, malleable, glossy, grey,  chemical element with no odour or taste. It is used in alloys   for corrosion resistance and shine. Chromium has the remarkable  ability to form a layer on the surface of stainless steel and  continually repair itself. Cold Working – Hammering, rolling, or stretching (for example)   at room temperature. Cold working increases the steels hardness,  strength and shape. Corrosion – Corrosion is the destruction of steel caused by  oxidation or another type of chemical reaction. Rust is a type   of corrosion caused by oxidation. Ductility – A metal that is ductile is malleable, and can be shaped  without cracking. Duplex – Duplex alloys are both ferritic and austenitic: they are  stronger and more corrosion resistant than most austenitics   and tougher than most ferritics. Hardening – Stainless steel can be hardened either by thermal  treatment or cold working. Heat Treatment – Heat treatments such as annealing,  precipitation strengthening, tempering and quenching are used   to harden or soften stainless steel. Interstitial Alloy – In this alloy, the atoms of the alloying materials   are dissimilar in size; the smaller atoms slot neatly into the gaps –   or interstices – between the larger atoms. Iron Ore – Iron ore are rocks, minerals or meteorites that are viable  sources of iron. Typically, the iron is in the form of iron oxide.  Martensitic – Martensitic stainless steels contain 11%-17%  chromium. Because of their high carbon content (0.10% to 0.65%),  martensitic stainless steels are hardened by quenching; good  corrosion resistance and exceptional mechanical properties. Molybdenum (Mo) – A soft, silvery-white, chemical element   that is used as a hardening agent, but when used with chromium,   it increases an alloys corrosion resistance. Nickel (Ni) – A hard, ductile, silvery-white, chemical element.   Nickel is a transition metal which bears a high lustre. Due to  corrosion resistance, it is frequently used in producing superalloys. Passivation Layer – An invisible, adamantine, non-reactive film  that forms on the surface of steel and other materials in a caustic  environment. It is only a few atoms thick and helps prevent corrosion. Precipitation Hardening – A method of heat treatment, the  process is useful for strengthening malleable materials. For it to  occur, the alloy must remain at a higher temperature for hours. Quenching – Quenching is a heat treatment used to harden  stainless steel.  Stainless Steel – Stainless steel is a ferrous alloy that resists  staining, rusting and corrosion. Stainless steel has a chromium  content that exceeds 10% and may contain varying amounts   of other elements such as nickel, molybdenum, etc depending   on the grade. Tempering – A heat treatment process used to toughen metal. Summary of commitments A summary of the commitments, goals, plans and aspirations   listed in the report for completion by the end of 2012 Safety Maintain target-beating LTIFR with constant vigilance for improvement Improve visible leadership, training, contractor safety, safety reporting   and best practice sharing Implement Fair Play policy group wide  Improve quality of root cause analyses of all accidents People Renew our training focus: training plans in 93% of plants Launch the Aperam Employee Value Proposition initiative  Apply GEDP for 100% of senior management/directors and 95%   of other management  Succession plans for 80% of senior managers and 90% of middle managers Complete actions in response to our Leadership Survey Community Monitoring of community risks affecting our licence to operate Review all community engagement initiatives Review local supply chain programmes in Brazil Environment Revise environmental targets Improve local emissions data collection and reporting Complete our compliance with the EU REACH Regulations Review our environmental compliance programme for our arc furnaces Complete clean technology expansion at our flagship plant   at Gueugnon in France Customers Implement action plan in response to our customer survey Launch second phase of Commercial Excellence Project in 2012,   including common performance monitoring for the commercial teams Innovation Promote the development and marketing of less expensive alloys Ramp up Aperams business in oil and gas, water, desalination,  photovoltaics and sustainable construction sectors Intensify collaborations with universities and utility companies Aperam Sustainability Report 2012  29  Copyright 2012  Aperam Produced by Aperam with the assistance of Two Tomorrows (Europe) Ltd and AB (UK) Aperam 12C, rue Guillaume Kroll L-1882 Luxembourg Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Tel: +352 27 36 27 00 Email: contact@aperam.com Aperam Investor Relations: Michael Bennett: +352 27 36 27 36 Aperam Media contact: Jean Lasar: +352 27 36 27 27 For all sustainability feedback: sustainability@aperam.com @aperam www.facebook.com/aperam See more at aperam.com/sustainability