China Mobile: Enabling A Better Life Creating a Better Future with  Sincerity and Innovation 2011 Sustainability Report China Mobile Communications Corporation China Mobile Communications Corporation Address: Offce 907, 29 Jinrong Avenue, Xicheng District, Beijing 100033, China Fax: +86-10-6600 6167 Website for Report Download: www.10086.cn All copyrights reserved. No reproduction by any means is allowed without acknowledgement. This report was printed on 100% recycled paper. China Mobile  2011 Sustainability Report  Actively fulfilling our social responsibilities and achieving mutual sustainable development with our stakeholders is  a strategic choice for China Mobile to become a company that is built to last. As a communications operator, our  network, products and services are closely related to the everyday lives of over 680 million of our customers. As a state- owned enterprise directly controlled by the central government, in addition to maintaining and increasing the value of  state-owned assets under our management, we have the responsibility of accelerating the transformation of societal  development, playing a more active role in facilitating better lives for people, and building a harmonious society. Based on these considerations, we stick to our core value of Sincerity Makes Perfection and have developed a new  vision, Mobile Changes Life, under the guidance of the Scientific Concept of Development, as China enters the 12th  Five-year Plan period from 2011 to 2015. We have integrated sustainability with business strategy and operations,  and have developed a distinct sustainability strategy. In 2011, we actively implemented our sustainability strategy by  adhering to integrity and focusing on innovation, so as to promote the sustainable economic, social and environmental  development of our responsible operations. We strove to win customers trust and confidence by adhering to business integrity, improving corporate governance  by establishing a board of directors, and making continuous improvements to our risk management and internal  control systems. Furthermore, we are committed to preventing corruption by strengthening our corruption prevention  system and promoting a high standard of business ethics. We made great efforts to ensure smooth, secure and reliable  network connectivity and consumption transparency to our customers, and we were strong advocates for a healthy  communications culture. We also undertook various measures to narrow the digital divide and to nourish better living with information solutions.  We helped bridge the digital divide and met the needs of customers in rural areas and customers with special needs  by reducing tariffs, offering more convenient services and more useful applications, and enabling more customers  to improve their lives with mobile communications. With technologies such as Wireless City and the Internet of  Things, we expanded Information and Communication Technology (ICT) services into various fields such as mobile  health, greenhouse monitoring, mining safety, intelligent logistics, smart home monitoring and others, creating more  convenient and better mobile lives for people. We promoted the development of the TD technology and played a leading role in growing our industry. By deepening  the strategy of integrating the GSM, TD-SCDMA, WLAN and TD-LTE networks, TD technology has now acquired  approximately one-third of the market. We also actively promoted the TD-LTE technology and it has become a major  global 4G standard. We innovated on our business models and worked together with our supply chain partners to  develop new areas and new values for ICT services. Furthermore, we constructed a responsible supply chain that  promotes the green development of our industry. We cared for communities and contributed to the development of a resource-saving and environmentally friendly  society. Focusing on the needs of disadvantaged groups in society, we launched and implemented a number of charity  programs which included providing educational assistance to Chinas central and western areas, caring for children  orphaned by AIDS, and providing financial as well as medical assistance to poor children with congenital heart disease.  We encouraged employee volunteerism and developed an extensive platform to support charitable causes with  the participation of the entire society. By managing our impacts on the environment comprehensively, continuously  implementing our Green Action Plan, and promoting green office and green business, we have successfully achieved  our energy conservation and emissions reduction goals. We also actively promoted environmentally friendly ICT  applications in order to help our society become more resource saving and environmentally friendly. In 2011, our continuous efforts to pursue sustainability were well acknowledged and recognized by our stakeholders,  as indicated by our inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, and being awarded the China Charity Award.  However, we humbly understand that there are still a lot of things we can do given the responsibilities upon our  shoulders. We must gain better understanding of our role in the overall development of our nation and society, and  must better respond to the expectations of our stakeholders with higher ethical standards and greater transparency. We  are committed to fully leveraging our expertise in ICT and reaching out to our stakeholders in order to coordinate our  efforts to build as well as share the beautiful vision of Mobile Changes Life! CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Creating a Better Future with Sincerity and Innovation April 2012 Mr. Xi Guohua Secretary of Party Committee & Chairman, China Mobile Communications Corporation  SuSTAINABIlITy PRACTICES  HIgHlIgHTS 2011 12 Adherence to Integrity and  Compliance  Improving Corporate Governance  Corruption Prevention and Discipline Innovative and Highly-efficient  Operation  Innovation-driven Development  Specialized Operations Constructing Excellent Network  Enhancing Network Quality  Enhancing EMF Management  Strengthening Emergency  Communications Support Striving for Customer Confidence  Addressing Customers Needs  Ensuring Transparency in Consumption  Protecting Information Security  Advocating a Healthy Communications  Culture Narrowing the Digital Divide  Narrowing Urban-Rural Digital Divide  Serving Disadvantaged Groups Enabling a Better Life with Innovative  Information Solutions  Constructing Wireless City  Informationalization Promoting Enhanced  Healthcare  Informationalization Supporting Campus  Construction  Informationalization Facilitating Peoples Lives  Informationalization Supporting Cultural  Heritage  Informationalization Serving Production  Management 22 22 24 25 25 26 28 29 31 32 16 16 16 17 18 18 19 20 21 13 13 14 15 15 15 CONTENTS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ABOuT CHINA MOBIlE 01 04 Sustainability Vision Sustainability Strategy Sustainability Management  Enhancing Sustainability Management  Deepening Stakeholder Engagement 06 07 08 08 10 SuSTAINABIlITy STRATEgy AND  MANAgEMENT 06  SuSTAINABIlITy  PERFORMANCE lOOKINg FORWARD 49 52 INDEXES 53 53 54 54 ABOuT THIS REPORT FEEDBACK 55 56 33 33 34 36 37 37 38 39 39 40 41 42 43 43 44 GRI Index (G3.1) The UN Global Compacts 10  Principles Index ISO 26000 Index Managing Environmental Impacts  Optimizing Management System  Reducing Energy Consumption in  Operations  Enhancing Resource Utilization Promoting Environmental  Applications  Smart Transportation and Logistics  Environment Monitoring and  Management Employee Caring and  Development  Supporting Employee Career  Development  Caring for Employees Fostering a Harmonious  Community  Development Aid and    Poverty Alleviation  Supporting Education  Caring for Disadvantaged Groups  Encouraging Volunteerism Pushing Forward to Go Global  Expanding Overseas Business  Fulfilling Local Responsibilities 45 45 46 47 48 48 48 Leading Industry Growth  Promoting TD Development  Building a Responsible Supply Chain  Promoting Green Development of the  Industry  2011 Sustainability Report 4 ABOuT CHINA MOBIlE  5 ABOUT CHINA MOBILE As of 31 December 2011,  China Mobile had over 900,000 base stations over  680 million customers China Mobile Communications Corporation (China Mobile, we or the Company for short) was established  on April 20, 2000. With assets exceeding 1 trillion RMB, China Mobile boasts the worlds largest mobile network and  subscriber base. China Mobile wholly owns China Mobile (Hong Kong) Group Limited. China Mobile Limited (the Listed Company  for short) is under China Mobile (Hong Kong) Group Limited and has set up wholly owned subsidiaries in 31  provinces (autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government) and Hong Kong SAR, and  has been listed in Hong Kong and New York stock exchanges. In 2011, China Mobile ranked the 87th in Fortune  Global 500 list, with a leading brand value in global telecom industry, and was included as one of the worlds 50  Most Innovative Companies.  So far, China Mobile has over 900,000 base stations and more than 680 million customers. China Mobile has  received Grade A for seven consecutive years in the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission  (SASAC) assessment and was honored Enterprise with Outstanding Performance by SASAC. The Company entered  Financial Times BRANDZ Top 100 Most Powerful Brands Ranking for 4 consecutive years. The Listed Company was  named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) for 4 consecutive years, the only company from Chinese  mainland to be selected to this prestigious index. Moreover, to honor its contribution to the public good, China  Mobile has been granted China Charity Award, the top government prize in the field of charity for 4 consecutive  years.  China Mobile is a member of United Nations Global Compact. The Company recognizes and strives to observe the 10  principles of Global Compact and joins the Caring for Climate action advocated by the organization. China Mobile is  a member of The Climate Group and played an active role in dealing with climate change. Major Recognitions in 2011   China Mobile has received Grade A for seven consecutive years in the SASAC assessment and was honored  Enterprise with Outstanding Performance by SASAC;    We ranked the 87th in Fortune Global 500 list, with a leading brand value in global telecom industry, and  were included as one of the worlds 50 Most Innovative Companies;   We entered Financial Times BRANDZ Top 100 Most Powerful Brands Ranking for 4 consecutive years, while  the Listed Company was named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes for 4 consecutive years, the only  company from Chinese mainland to be selected to this prestigious index;   We were recognized as an 11th Five-year Central Enterprise with Excellent Performance on Energy Saving  and Emission Reduction;   We were awarded as a 2008-2010 Advanced Group on Internal Audit in National-wide by the National Audit  Office;   We were awarded as MWE China Award SOE In-House Team of the Year by Asian Legal Business (ALB),  and were the only legal team of state-owned enterprise received the honor;   We were successfully recognized as one of Chinas Golden Trademarks by the State Administration for  Industry & Commerce (SAIC) and the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), and were the only  central enterprise received the honor;   We received the China Charity for Children Outstanding Contribution Award and have been granted China  Charity Award, the top government prize in the field of charity for 4 consecutive years;    We were awarded a Serious Games Promoting Award by the Ministry of Culture in the section of 2011  China Digital Culture Grand Ceremony at the 9th China International Digital Content Expo; and   We were presented with the Wireless Broadband Alliance (WBA) Annual Value Contribution Award for  promoting operators agreeing on roaming identification at the conference of GSM Association (GSMA)  and WBA.  2011 Sustainability Report 6 SuSTAINABIlITy STRATEgy AND  MANAgEMENT A Better China Mobile Better Communities A Better Environment Better Products and Services Mobile Changes life Sustainability Vision  Our strategic vision for the five years from 2011 to 2015 is Mobile Changes Life. From the sustainability perspective,  it means that we will integrate our sustainable development with ICT development and strive to innovate and enhance  our sustainable development capability. In this way, we are going to build a better China Mobile by leveraging on our  expertise. With our extensive information communications networks and large selection of powerful mobile applications,  we will provide better products and services to lead and meet the market demand for mobilization, broadbandization  and informationalization, improve how people live and work, improve the standards of living, enhance the economic and  social efficiency, contribute to environmental protection, maximize benefits to daily lives and create more possibilities for  people to have a better life. It is our sustainability philosophy that by upholding our core value of Responsibility Makes Perfection, we strive to  achieve sustainable economic, social and environmental development in a way that co-ordinates the present and the  future and takes into account the interests of ourselves and our  stakeholders. A Better China Mobile: In order  to realize the vision of Mobile  Changes Life, first of all, we  need to continuously enhance  our sustainable development  capability to achieve the harmonious  development of our enterprise, our  employees and our industry. Integrity  is the foundation of our existence –  we regard integrity as our business  philosophy and keep on improving  our corporate governance structure  and establish mechanisms to  prevent and discipline corruptions.  We also keep on improving  our operation efficiency and  innovation mechanisms, enhancing  our potentials of sustainable  development and improving  the quality and efficiency of our  operations with innovations. We  strive to create a friendly working  environment and explore more  career development channels to  enable our employees to work  happily while realizing the mutual  growth and values of both our  employees and the Company. Better Products and Services: We  respond to the ever-changing  business environment by actively  addressing the customers needs,  building customers confidence  in our network reliability and  consumption transparency,  winning customers trust with  reliable products and services  and continuously innovating on  personal and industry information  applications. The convenient  products and services enable our  customers to improve the efficiency  of their work, improve their quality  of life and create opportunities for  them to enjoy a wonderful life. Better Communities: We strive to  narrow the digital divide and provide  universal access to information, so  as to enable the changing Chinese  society to develop in a more fair and  inclusive way. While creating values  for the society, the convenient and  effective communications products  and services that we provide enable  people to realize their dreams and  share their growth. We actively  participate in charitable activities  and encourage our employees to  engage in volunteer activities, so  as to make their contributions to  the development of a harmonious  society. A Better Environment: We actively  respond to climate change  challenges and pay attention to  managing the environmental impacts  of our own operation. In our pursuit  of low-carbon development, we  actively build a green industry chain  and promote the green development  in the communications industry. We  endeavor to leverage our strengths  and capabilities as an ICT business  to develop new environmentally  friendly products and services and  enable our clients to create a better  natural environment for future  generations.  7 Key Sustainability Issues Sustainability Strategic Actions  Adherence to Integrity  and Compliance  To improve corporate governance, strengthen internal audit and internal control, prevent legal risks and ensure compliance;  To discipline corruption strictly and establish a corruption prevention and discipline system;  Innovative and Highly-efficient  Operation   To innovate actively, explore new technologies, develop new models and new areas to expand growth potential;  To enhance operation management, reduce cost and improve efficiency;  Constructing Excellent Network   To ensure good network coverage, improve network quality and provide emergency communications support;   To strengthen electromagnetic field radiation (EMF) management and build safe and green networks;   Striving for Customer   Confidence  To focus on customers needs and improve customer satisfaction;   To enhance consumption transparency, protect information security and customer privacy and foster a healthy consumption  environment;  Narrowing the Digital Divide  To promote rural information services and further narrow the rural-urban digital divide;   To address the communication need of disadvantaged groups and provide convenient services and universal access;  Enabling a Better Life with  Innovative Information Solutions   To construct Wireless City and serve the agricultural production, healthcare enhancement, campus construction and culture  heritage and other industries with informationalization;   Managing Environmental   Impacts   To continue implementing the Green Action Plan and minimize our own environmental impacts with green network, green  office and green operations;   To continue improving resource efficiency with SIM card downsizing and the Green Boxes Environmental Protection Program;  Promoting Environmental  Applications   To promote environmentally friendly information applications and contribute to environmental protection with ICT;  Fostering a Harmonious  Community   To improve the management of the China Mobile Charity Foundation, support development aid and poverty alleviation and  organize philanthropic activities in support of education and caring for disadvantaged groups;  Employee Caring and  Development  To improve career development mechanism and encourage employees development;   To care for employees health and take various measures to help employees achieve work-life balance;  Leading Industry Growth  To promote TD-SCDMA (TD) development, create and share value with partners;   To introduce social responsibility standards and requirements, forge a responsible supply chain and lead the industry to going green;  Pushing Forward to Go Global  To actively expand international operations following the Go Global strategy; and  To actively engage local communities and assume local responsibilities during the process of Go Global. Sustainability Strategy  In 2011, with our vision Mobile Changes Life as the guidance, we thoroughly analyzed macro policies and our  stakeholders demands, set global best practices as our benchmarks, reviewed our sustainability management status and  developed the following China Mobile Sustainability Issue Map to guide our sustainable development in terms of seizing  opportunities and controlling risks which helped us to identify and focus on 12 key issues that our stakeholders are  concerned about. To Seize Opportunities To Control Risks SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT China Mobile Sustainability Issue Map China Mobile Key Sustainability Issues Responsibility  Makes  Perfection Mobile  Changes  Life  Business  integrity and  compliance  Prevent and  discipline  corruption Governmental  Authorities and  Regulators  Lead industrys  development  Reliable networks  Trustworthy  services Customers  Satisfy  customers  needs with  innovations  Forge a  responsible  supply chain Value Chain Partners  Win-win  cooperation and  value sharing  Promote green  development of  industry  Improve  corporate  governance  Strengthen risk  management Shareholders and  Investors  Innovative and  highly-efficient  operation  Pushing forward  to Go Global  Protect  employees  rights  Caring for  employees' lives Employees  Attract talents  Support employees  career development  Strengthen EMF  management  Reduce energy  consumption  Improve resource  efficiency Community and  Environment  Narrow the digital  divide  Promote livelihood  improvement and  environmental  protection with ICT  Support charity  2011 Sustainability Report 8 In 2011, we focused on the following four key management tasks: sustainability benchmarking management, evaluation  of sustainability potentials, CSR practices competition and sustainability reporting. Sustainability Management  Sustainability Benchmarking Management In 2011, we conducted a DJSI benchmark analysis by comparing our sustainable development capability with the DJSI  evaluation standards and the best practices in the telecommunications industry to identify our shortcomings so as  to further enhance our sustainable development capability management. We established a long-term management  mechanism with the participation of every department at headquarters and assigned each DJSI indicator to different  departments to be included in their regular tasks. In 2011, we were recognized on DJSI for the fourth consecutive year  and were still the only company from Mainland China listed on the DJSI. Meanwhile, we also compared our sustainable  development capability with the best practices of global industry peers to identify how we could further improve. Enhancing Sustainability Management Since the compilation of our first Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report in 2006, we have gradually established  a scientific and sound CSR management system. We established a CSR Steering Committee that was headed by  our chairman as the highest CSR management decision-making body, gradually established a Company-Provincial  Subsidiaries two-tier CSR risk management system and built related organizational structure and workflows. By  conducting regular work on four types of management (i.e. strategy management, implementation management,  performance management and communication management), we aim to integrate the sustainability management with  our day-to-day operational management in an effective way. Milestones of China Mobiles Sustainability Management Specified strategy and  developed framework Published the first   CSR report Introduced three-bottom  line concept and specified  CSR strategy Issued the Groups  CSR guidelines Formulated initial  CSR strategy and  management framework Established organization  and enhanced efficiency Established CSR Steering  Committee Implemented  5 major CSR projects Conducted first CSR  practices competition Developed CSR indicators Established CSR  management system and  further implemented   5 major CSR projects Set up system and  promoted integration Formulated CSR  management  regulation Studied on sustainability  indicator system Explored CSR risk  management Established CSR risk  management system  and integrated CSR  management with  business operation Optimized strategy  with comprehensive  dissemination Completed 2010-2012  strategy enhancement Developed sustainability  philosophy and value model Promoted CSR risk  management system Implemented a comprehensive  promotion of Culture  of Responsibility Optimized and improved  CSR strategy and  enhanced the dissemination  of CSR philosophy Benchmarked with  global standards and  continued improving Implemented DJSI best  practices as benchmark Improved sustainable  development capability  enhancement  system Promoted international  cooperation on  sustainability Developed in- depth international  benchmarking  and cooperation  and continued  forging sustainable  development capability 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006 Set philosophy and  prepared CSR report Developed China Mobiles  CSR view Studied & learnt from  global CSR standards and  best practices Commenced the  compilation of the  Companys  first CSR report Prepared   CSR report with global  standards  9 Evaluation of Sustainability Potentials To fully evaluate and manage our sustainability potentials, we have been exploring on the establishment of a sus- tainability indicator system since 2009. In 2011, we explored a new sustainability indicator system (2011 version)  that consists of four indicators – operation power, influence power, initiative power and coexistence power, and  completed an evaluation on our sustainability potentials and a thorough inspection of the sustainable development  capabilities for our 31 provincial subsidiaries. Based on our findings, we formulated an improvement plan specifying  objectives, responsible departments and completion timelines to strengthen our sustainability potentials. CSR Practices Competition In order to encourage and promote our subsidiaries innovation on CSR practices, we have been hosting the China  Mobile CSR practice competitions since 2008 for four consecutive years as an important part of our sustainability per- formance management. Internal experts and external stakeholders review and select the cases submitted to discover  and promote outstanding CSR practices. In 2011, we further enhanced stakeholder participation by inviting external  experts as judges at the early stage of the competition, allowing online voting by the employees and public and other  means. A number of awards, including CSR Top 10 Performance, The Best Idea and The Best Employee Par- ticipation, were granted to winning cases and the award of The Most Popular Practice Chosen by Employees and  the award of The Most Popular Practice Chosen by Public were selected by internal and public voting. Sustainability Reporting We were the first company to release a CSR report in Chinas telecommunications industry. Since we released our first  report in 2007, we have used it as a platform to understand our progress and weakness in our annual CSR management  and to disclose non-financial information regularly. We changed the name of the report to Sustainability Report from  2010 to reflect the idea of integrating sustainability management with the daily operational management. It has become  an important platform for us to communicate with our stakeholders about the management and progress of our sustain- ability issues, as well as to collect their feedback and suggestions. The compiling process is also an important manage- ment phase for internal dissemination of our sustainability concept and streamlining of our sustainability practices. Our  2010 Sustainability Report was granted the Global Compact Report Special Style Award and the 2011 Golden Bee  Leader Enterprise Award for Outstanding CSR Reports. SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT  2011 Sustainability Report 10 Expanding Research on Mobile Health Deepening Stakeholder Engagement It is very important for us to identify our key stakeholders and communicate with them regularly and effectively. In 2011,  based on our sustainability strategy, we reviewed and categorized our key stakeholders into six major groups: employees,  shareholders and investors, government authorities and regulators, customers, value chain partners and community and  environment. In 2011, we continued to strengthen communication with and participation by our stakeholders. First of all, as we issued  our first sustainability report, we focused on collecting stakeholders feedback by interviewing 18 institutions including  professional institutions, industry peers and famous colleges to collect their feedback which have been used as references  in preparing the 2011 sustainability report. Secondly, we tried to introduce more views of external stakeholders in our sustainability management. We invited  external judges at the early stage of the CSR Practice Competition and allowed online voting in the competition of 2011  to further enhance the objectivity of the judges and the participation by the stakeholders. Over a million online votes  were collected. In 2011, in light of the vision of Mobile Changes Life, we focused on engagement with our stakeholders in the areas  such as mobile health, Wireless City and the Internet of Things. In 2011, we also communicated with a variety of  organizations, such as the Climate Group, the United Nations Global Compact, the Global Reporting Initiative and the  World Food Program on certain key sustainable development topics. In Anhui, we responded to public questions via live radio In Beijing, the research report Mobile Health: Medical Applications for Today and Future  conducted jointly by China Mobile and the University of Cambridge was issued We successfully completed the joint sustainability program with the University of Cambridge on Mobile  Health in 2011. This program integrated the multi-discipline expert resources of the University of Cam- bridge with our business operation experience. It explored the global trends in mobile health applications  and focused on four categories of applications for mobile health of the next generation. In addition, the  program tried to explore the right business model for different mobile health applications and their poten- tial risks and benefits. The program has identified ways to tap mobile health opportunities and the strate- gies for various parties to participate. The research has significant academic values in further exploring the  potential contribution by mobile communication applications to social sustainability, promoting the appli- cation and innovation of mobile health applications and exploring development models for mobile health  applications in different countries and under different medical systems.  Based on this research, we co-hosted a webinar on the topic of Mobile Health: Medical Applications for  Today and Future. The webinar attracted over 50 experts and industry players from well-known universi- ties and relevant institutions, such as the University of Cambridge, Oxford University, Harvard University,  GSMA and World Health Organization, and received excellent responses.  11 Stakeholders Method of Engagement Content of Engagement Examples of Key Activities in 2011 Report Content Employees  Employee Representative  Committee Meeting  Training  Performance reviews  Employee complaints and  feedback  Employee survey   Employees participation in the Companys  operations  Protecting labor rights  Employee career development   Harmonious working environment and  prevention of work related pressure   Further opened up the CEOs  mailbox and responded to  employees requests in a timely  manner 43-44 Shareholders and  Investors  Release of operational  results  Daily management  Regular communication  meetings  Preserving and increasing the assets  value   Managing and preventing operational  risks  Formulating development strategy   Socially responsible investment demand  for enterprises   Communicated promptly on major  events according to information  disclosure requirements and  maintained regular communication  and interaction with shareholders  and investors through various  means 5,13-15 Government Authorities  and Regulators  Working meetings and  reporting  Exchange meetings   Cooperative projects   Meeting industry regulatory demands   Meeting government requirements for  implementing CSR    Compliance management, inspection  and feedback   Cooperating on philanthropic activities   Cooperated and promoted   the implementation of strategic  cooperation agreement between  the Company and 31 provincial  governments and jointly pushed  forward local informationalization 13-14, 18-21, 39-41 Customers  Customer satisfaction  surveys   Customer relationship  management   Walking into China   Mobile   China Mobile Membership Club   Communications with key  corporate customers  Improving network performance  Improving customer service   Ensuring the security of customer data  and customer privacy  Preventing spam and unhealthy  contents  Promoting new ways of  communications    Providing disaster emergency assistance   Conducted regular surveys on  customer satisfaction, improved  service quality and increased  customer perception 15,16-32 Value Chain Partners  Industry organizations  Conferences and forums  Working groups  Exchange activities  Industry outlook and potential  opportunities   Joint research and development and   experience sharing   Communicating on CSR management  Cooperative projects on CSR    Held the first China Mobile   App Developers Conference and  opened Cloud Services to all the  parties 45-47 Community and  Environment  Community engagement  Media communications  Community philanthropy  Improving the lives of disadvantaged  groups  Supporting community development   Energy conservation and emissions  reduction and environmental protection  Improving EMF management   Implemented comprehensive  survey on public CSR awareness  in all provinces, understood and  responded on key issues which the  public are concerned about 33-42, 47 Stakeholder Engagement SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT  2011 Sustainability Report 12 SuSTAINABIlITy PRACTICES HIgHlIgHTS 2011 In 2011, facing the challenges of sustainable development, we further integrated sustainable development into  our business operations. With both integrity and innovation, we have achieved great improvements in sustainable  development areas. This report will reveal our progress in the following 12 key issue areas, and our regular work on  sustainable development is included in the section of Sustainability Performance of this report. Innovative and  Highly-efficient  Operation Striving for  Customer  Confidence Constructing  Excellent Network Narrowing the  Digital Divide Adherence to  Integrity and  Compliance Enabling a Better  Life with Innovative  Information Solutions Promoting  Environmental  Applications Fostering a  Harmonious  Community Employee Caring and  Development Leading Industry  Growth Pushing Forward to  Go Global Managing  Environmental  Impacts  13 Adherence to Integrity and Compliance  Adherence to Integrity and Compliance SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES HIGHLIGHTS 2011 Improving Corporate governance Corporate governance system can balance and restrict negative factors that impede our development, and guarantee  a scientific, standardized and effective decision-making process. We adhered to principles of integrity, transparency,  Internal Audit The Company and its operating subsidiaries have set  up internal audit departments, which independently  audit the business units of the Company and its  operating subsidiaries. The Company has established  an internal audit scope framework and carried out  risk investigations on an annual basis. Based on the  results of the risk investigations, internal audit projects  are formulated by the internal audit departments on a  rolling and annual basis. The internal audit departments  conduct independent and objective supervision and  assessment and provide advices on the appropriateness,  compliance and effectiveness of the business operation  and internal control system of the Company by  applying systemized and standardized audit procedures  and approaches, thereby assisting in improving the  Companys corporate governance, risk management and  control process. Sustainable development is founded on adherence to integrity and compliance. In 2011, we continued  strengthening corporate governance and internal control system, promoted the establishment of disciplinary  and anti-corruption system on an organizational and institutional level and launched an anti-corruption  education to enhance the awareness of and eliminate corruption from our system. 3 audit functions 7 audit tasks Internal Control We adopted the control criteria framework set out in the Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of  the Treadway Commission (COSO) in establishing a stringent internal control system. At the same time, pursuant to external regulatory requirements and  the development and alteration of our businesses and internal management processes, we systematically reviewed the reasonableness and effectiveness  of our internal control design. We also explored the idea of establishing a comprehensive risk management system framework which integrates internal  control and risk management requirements focusing on high risk areas and key controls of our business operations. Furthermore, we actively promoted the  application of management information system for internal control. Through this system, the Company is able to keep itself abreast of the status of internal  control compliance in each business unit, enhance management efficiency, and hence reinforce the accountability of internal controls. legal Risk Management To address both internal and external changes we came across, we continued to improve our legal risk management system in 2011. We analyzed 9 key  legal risks such as asymmetric regulation and copyright risks and adopted relevant measures in response, and successfully carried out inspections on the  management of corporate legal risks at our provincial subsidiaries. We also actively participated in the policy making process that closely related to our  operations, such as the Telecommunications Law (Draft) and the Regulation on Supervision and Management of Listed Companies (Revised). We achieved  group-wide sharing of law suits data by implementing relevant alarm and reporting systems. In addition, we also explored methodologies and shared  experiences of managing law suits, such as exploring how to prevent intellectual property disputes. We analyzed previous legal disputes and developed  improvement suggestions accordingly to further strengthen our business operations and improve the quality of our services. openness and effectiveness, established a strict internal control system and continually enhanced risk management in order to ensure compliance with laws  and regulations in our operations. Board of Directors To establish the modern corporate system and ensure that External Directors can play a greater role, China Mobile made great progress in establishing the  Board of Directors under the guidance of the SASAC. On September 28, 2011, the SASAC held the working conference on board standardization at China  Mobile and announced the official establishment of China Mobile Communications Corporations Board of Directors and the list of our External Directors. Currently, the Board of Directors consists of the following members: Mr. XI Guohua (Chairman), Mr. LI Yue (Director), Madam HUANG Wenlin (Director), and  Mr. DING Zhongzhi, Mr. YU Ning, Mr. TONG Baoan, Mr. CHEN Geng and Mr. CHUNG Shuiming as External Directors. Core Concept System of  Internal Audit of China Mobile  2011 Sustainability Report 14 In Shandong, we organized anti-corruption education for local management personnel at mid-level or above Corruption Prevention and Discipline After a few of our senior management personnel were disciplined for violating laws and disciplines in the last two  years, we analyzed how the problem originated and took active measures to strengthen our corruption prevention  system and mechanism with a continued focus on prevention and discipline. Innovating on Anti-corruption Education We insisted on establishing a comprehensive system on integrity education that covers all employees focusing on  practical contents. Using a variety of training media such as office network, e-training, SMS and mobile papers, we  organized various anti-corruption and integrity trainings, compiled the China Mobile Anti-corruption Education Plan  and incorporated business ethics as part of corporate culture. Strengthening Anti-corruption Systems We organized anti-corruption trainings for senior management personnel and employees holding important positions  and required them to sign the anti-corruption commitments. We strictly implemented a senior management  personnel rotation policy and enhanced the supervision of senior management of our provincial subsidiaries through  inspection tours. We had also issued the Regulation on Sanctions for Violation of Disciplines and Rules by Employees  (Trial), and required all of our business partners to sign Business Integrity Commitments and Business Integrity  Agreements when participating in procurement projects and executing procurement agreements. Intensifying Complaint Handling Capability We have intensified our management of whistle-blowing of violations of discipline and developed a comprehensive  management system to manage complaints. We have also improved our measures for reviewing and investigating  complaints and imposed severe penalties on violations.  15    New Technologies  Completed 26 TD-LTE patent applications;  Formulated more than 20 protocols for the   full range of end-to-end commercial and   TDD/FDD convergent products;   In 2011, took a leading role in setting 55 industry  standards and participated in 90 projects;  Submitted 920 research papers to major  international standard organizations with   576 accepted and established 18 research  projects with them; and  Filed 857 new patent applications of which   260 were approved.    New Models  Smart Pipe: wireless data traffic revenue reached 44.4 billion yuan with an increase  of 45% by the end of 2011;  Open Platform: Mobile Market (MM) achieved 158 million customers and over 630  million times of downloads cumulatively;  Feature Businesses: Mobile Music, Mobile Mailbox, Mobile Reading, Mobile Video  and other featured businesses achieved a rapid growth; and  Integrated Interface: promoted proliferation of smart terminals and achieved  software compatible with mainstream operation systems.    New Areas  The Internet of Things: M2M customers continued to grow in the fields of  electricity, transportation, municipal management, environment, finance and  manufacture; completed the development of applications for 3 industries; and  Cloud Computing: established development plan of cloud computing, started  systematic construction of cloud services for private business enterprises and public  services, launched big cloud product pilot scheme and commercial deployment. Mobile Market Provides 3 Platforms   Consumer-oriented one-stop sales platform: MM gathers developers and their outstanding applications (such as software, games and themes) as  well as ample digital resources (such as music, videos and readings), which allow consumers to experience, download and purchase from different  platforms and terminals in real-time;    Developer-oriented one-stop service platform: The MM Cloud service aggregates resources from China Mobile and third parties. It establishes  a closed-loop services process covering the phases before, during and after development, provides developers with a one-stop cloud services  platform for developing, testing, releasing, managing, trading and operating mobile internet applications, which effectively reduced the barriers to  entry for developers; and   Industrial chain-oriented one-stop support platform: Adhering to the principle of Cooperation by opening up, development through  competition, MM gathers the best aspects of the industrial chain and builds a healthy ecosystem through providing information publication,  industry integration and business models for the partners in the industrial chain. Innovative and Highly-efficient Operation  The increasing popularity of mobile communications and decelerated  development in traditional telecommunications have led to increasingly  fierce competition among operators for market share and customers. New  mobile internet services have great growth potential but they also bring new  requirements upon the mechanism and model in which we operate. Facing  the new phase of development and competition, we strive to build our core  competencies based on innovations as well as with increasingly centralized  and specialized operations. Innovative and Highly-efficient Operation Innovation-driven Development In 2011, we continued to improve our innovation management and motivation systems to encourage innovation  among our employees. We continued to push the development of TD and TD-LTE technologies forward and to  promote the transformation of our business model, establishing a new model featuring Smart Pipe + Open  Platform + Featured Businesses + Integrated Interface. We also explored and promoted M2M (Machine to Machine)  technology and the Internet of Things and actively developed informationalization applications and integrated  applications. Specialized Operations In 2011, we continued to improve our management process and operational efficiency through centralized  management and operation. In order to reduce terminal cost, improve operation efficiency and consolidate the  industrial chain of mobile terminals, we established China Mobile Group Terminal Company Limited. At the same  time, we founded China Mobile International Company Limited, to provide businesses such as international voice  services, international roaming and global internet services to continue improving our specialized business operations. SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES HIGHLIGHTS 2011 Develop new  technologies  Promote new  models  Expand in new  areas  2011 Sustainability Report 16 Constructing Excellent Network The continuous increase of mobile users and explosive  increase in demand for data communications bring  new challenges to network capacity and quality. We are  committed to building a high-quality mobile network, fully  optimizing network quality, enhancing emergency response  readiness and maintaining the high level of network  reliability and efficiency. Meanwhile, we attach great  importance to our EMF management and strengthen the  promotion and communication of EMF knowledge. Enhancing Network Quality In 2011, we innovated on core technologies, improved our management and incentive mechanisms and made  continuous efforts to optimize network structure:   We carried out our first third-party survey on customer satisfaction on network quality, created an index of  customer satisfaction on network quality, analyzed key factors affecting customers perception of our network and  continued improving the quality and reliability of our network.  We launched a Network Quality Competition and discovered a total of 98,268 problems, of which 91,104  were solved with the resolution rate of 92.7%. We summarized a total of 5,404 outstanding cases, technological  innovations and best practices.  We built the first automatic testing system in China that was able to integrate test data collection and optimization  analysis together and completed network quality test in 325 cities at and above prefecture level for the first time  with annual test efficiency of over 40 times of the previous manual test. Since the implementation of the system,  we have discovered and solved over 44,000 network quality problems. In addition, we compiled the Customer Service Manual on Network Related Complaints to increase the efficiency and  quality in handling complaints about network problems. In 2011, after undergoing a number of projects such as the  Overall Sampling Analysis on Network-related Complaints, we were able to specify the ultimate reasons behind each  type of network quality complaints. We then established company-wide benchmarks of best practice in 3 areas including  problem solving, management process and support mechanism in order to improve network quality. In Hainan, with all the 8 base stations in Nansha Islands in operation, our signals now cover the southernmost point of  the South China Sea, achieving full coverage of all the islands and reefs in Nansha. Enhancing EMF Management We have formulated several rules and regulations to enhance our EMF management, promoted EMF knowledge  among communities and established a healthy and worry-free communication service. Enhancing EMF Management and Supervision In 2011, we issued the China Mobile Regulations on EMF Management that further systemizes, regulates and standardizes  our EMF management. We also issued the China Mobile Regulations on EMF Inspection (Provisional) to review the EMF  management performance of 1/3 of our provincial subsidiaries of the Group every year. We have arranged EMF self-assessment  and self-rectification among all the base stations and required our provincial subsidiaries to submit EMF management progress  report every quarter. Promoting EMF Communication We engaged Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications in research on the impact of mobile communications  EMF on health of biological bodies. We also collected best practices globally and issued a book titled EMF and How  to Avoid It, which symmetrically introduced EMF knowledge of mobile communications. Moreover, we had set up a  specific section about EMF on our official website introducing EMF standards and its development, as well as an EMF  section in our OA system to introduce EMF knowledge to our employees. In Ningxia, we invited some customers in the neighborhood to a site under construction to participate in our EMF  measurement. The result, showing that the EMF meter in the base station was only about 1% of that from making a  mobile phone call, addressed the customers concern. During the 2011 Network Quality  Competition,  98,268 problems were discovered 91,104 problems were solved 92.7%  problem solving rate  17 Strengthening Emergency Communications Support In recent years, mobile network has become an important channel of information dissemination and communication.  The public has an urgent demand for communications at the time of major events and sudden incidents. We have  established a strong emergency management system to provide smooth emergency communications support for  major events and emergencies. On one hand, we have strived to provide communications support and services for  all major events such as the Xian International Horticultural Expo and the 26th Universiade hosted in Shenzhen; on  the other hand, we have made great efforts to enhance our capability to deal with various emergencies and natural  disasters such as rain, flood, snow and drought to ensure stable and smooth communications. In 2011, we formed the Emergency Communications Leading Team at our headquarters and completed the  organizational and personnel preparation and developed the emergency communications management framework  at the provincial subsidiary level. We have developed a regional disaster-specific emergency communications support  system that contains 6 major regions according to geographic location, transportation conditions and types of  disasters. We clarified the responsibilities of provincial subsidiaries within each region, forming a regional emergency  support mechanism that consists of Leading Bureaus – Collaborating Bureaus – Common Bureaus. Leading  bureaus and collaborating bureaus are required to establish emergency support teams that respond to different  incidents and support scenarios across different regions in China. Moreover, we also improved our emergency plan system, strengthened the disaster resistance capacity of our  communications network, enhanced our preparedness in emergency supplies and equipment and further improved  our capacity to provide emergency communications support. In Yunnan, a 5.8 magnitude earthquake happened in Yingjiang county at 12:58 pm on 30 March. We took prompt  actions to prepare for disaster relief tasks and ensure smooth communications in the disaster areas.  In Shaanxi, the International Horticultural Expo had its opening ceremony in Xian on 28 April. We made thorough  preparation for this event that included engineering and construction, resource allocation, maintenance and optimi- zation. We built 69 base stations and allocated 72 workers in 6 on-site service teams to provide 24/7 services for  the event. In Guizhou, a mudslide caused by heavy rains cut off the communication connections with a number of townships in  Wangmo county on 6 June. Our emergency response team worked for more than 10 hours continuously to restore  communications within the area starting from Dayi township, Wangmo county. In Zhejiang, the D301 train from Beijing to Fuzhou collided with the D3115 train from Hangzhou to Fuzhou at 20:27  pm on 23 July. We activated the emergency response system immediately and the first group of our emergency sup- port personnel arrived at the site at 22:20 pm and promptly completed a number of tasks including network optimi- zation, base station off-loading and starting emergency power generation. In Guangdong, the 26th Universiade started in Shenzhen on 12 August. Aiming at the goal of ensuring a safe event  with no mistake, we overcame a number of difficulties, such as the large amount of construction work as well as  tight schedule, and provided communications support to the game successfully with no significant error, no focused  complaint and no network security breach. In Xinjiang, we held emergency communications support  skills competition In Jiangsu, we organized emergency communications drill In Guangxi, our rescue personnel was delivering fuel for  electricity generating to Liuzijie in Quanzhou county In 2011, for the purpose of  emergency response, 4,671 times that emergency  response mechanisms  had been deployed 320,866 person-times that  emergency response  personnel had been  dispatched Constructing Excellent Network SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES HIGHLIGHTS 2011  2011 Sustainability Report 18 Striving for Customer Confidence China Mobile adheres to its mantra of Customers are our priority, quality service is our principle,  actively takes measures to respond to and deal with customers requests and endeavors to provide  convenient services so as to ensure customers rights and benefits are well protected. Addressing Customers Needs We actively address customers needs, reduce tariffs on a continuous basis, strive to provide  efficient and convenient services and pay great attention to customers complaints. China Mobiles 10086 hotline provides professional 24/7 services In Guangxi, we provided children seat for customers Improving Customers Satisfaction towards Tariff In 2011, we set improving customers satisfaction towards tariff as one  of our major tasks and included this facet into our annual customer  satisfaction assessment system as one of the assessment indicators. In order to improve the affordability and promote the use of  communications services, we continued to reduce tariff levels so as  to improve customers satisfaction. We launched the GoTone Internet  package, business traveler package and a number of data service packages  accompanying these plans Group-wide. The new plans have lower rates  but more minutes volume and Internet traffic volume. In addition, we have  also lowered the international roaming tariffs, including voice, SMS and  data, of 38 countries and regions. We have also introduced several new  daily roaming data plans for international communication as well as for  Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan. Providing Convenient Services We create better customer perception by promoting transformation of the  operation mode in our service halls. In Gansu, we created the First-line Space Station to explore a new service  model which offers a full range of services through multiple contact points.  The First-line Space Station allows integrated service workflows and is suit- able for occasions such as move around services in service halls, home-visit to  corporate customers, on-site service handling, managers' mobile office and  new business promotion. Customer waiting time was reduced by 3.2 minutes  on average representing an approximately 60% decrease after its application. In Xinjiang, we opened the first mobile phone 4S one-stop service hall.  It has four main areas consisting of sales, select business, sensation and  service, which allows customers to enjoy a full range of mobile phone re- lated services and after-sales service experience. Strengthening Response to Customer Complaints In order to address the needs of our customers in a timely manner, we  optimized our process of collecting and processing customer complaints.  We also made dedicated efforts to support frontline employees who  directly serve our customers to allow them to communicate with customers  promptly and conveniently. In Hunan, we launched the Transparent Electronic Complaint Worksheet  system that serves all customers. The system allows our customers to check  the processing status of their complaints and suggestions within the last  90 days either via SMS service channel or at our web portal, fully satisfying  customers information access rights and effectively improving their satis- faction. In Liaoning, we improved our complaint handling process with four mech- anisms: a two-tier monitoring mechanism that monitors the complaints  handling process through forwarding the complaints and phone calls; an  orange and red two-tier alarm mechanism that monitors complaints and  media coverage; a supervision mechanism that supervises and follows up  on major complaints, and a feedback mechanism that deals with the pos- sible remaining issues in the handling process of the customers complaints  for the second time.  19 In Gansu, we guided customers through our service options Ensuring Transparency in Consumption Leveraging on our strong business support system, we provide customers with accurate billing information allowing  customers to know what they are spending on.  In early 2011, we initiated two new Transparency in Consumption services in China: SMS reminder before  imposing charges and 0000 centralized channel to review and unsubscribe value-added services. After  subscribing to a value-added service, a customer will receive a SMS reminder before the service is billed and he/she  can review his/her monthly value-added service usage and unsubscribe any service by simply texting the message  0000 to our 10086 service hotline. These services allow us to better protect our customers information access  rights and to enable our customers to make informed choices. At the end of 2011, we announced that from 1 January 2012, new pre-paid customers will no longer have expiry dates  on their accounts. Existing customers with expiry date on their accounts can choose to end it by the second quarter in  2012.  Striving for Customer Confidence SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES HIGHLIGHTS 2011 In Jiangxi, we fully enhanced our data consumption alert service. We optimized our business support system and im- proved and added 10 usage alert functions for both customers with monthly service packages and pre-paid custom- ers to tackle the problems of unnoticed data consumption and above-quota data consumption. In Sichuan, we continued to promote the practice of double refunding for billing error and ensure an accurate  billing system. We also provided customers with accurate, timely, detailed and comprehensive billing information and  call records, allowing customers to review and print the information. We were the only Consumer Education Dem- onstration Base named by the Sichuan Consumer Protection Committee in the communications industry in Sichuan. Optimizing Customer Agreement In 2011, we thoroughly updated and optimized 4 customer agreements that related to service subscription,  service transfer, service unsubscribing and customer information gathering. We strengthened the protection of  customer rights, such as specifying that the customer has the right to choose third-party value-added products  and services freely, and made our responsibilities to customers more specific, such as providing the customer  with free balance checks. We also further standardized the content and phrases of the agreements to make  them easy to understand.  2011 Sustainability Report 20 5 Bans for China Mobile  Customer Service  Do not disclose or exchange  customer information;  Do not send illegal  information or do not send  commercial advertisement  without customers  consent;  Do not subscribe or alter  services for customer  without customers  confirmation;  Do not collude with, cover  up or allow providers  of value-added services  to disclose customer  information, subscribe data  and information services  for customers, or do other  activities that infringe  customers rights; and  Do not collude with, protect  or encourage channel or  system partners to give  out customer information,  embezzle customers  payment, transfer or close  customers account without  permission, sell phone  number information, as  well as other activities that  infringe customers rights. Protecting Information Security The incidents of customer information leakage have severely damaged the customer privacy. To avoid the occurrence  of such incidents, we have been making continuous efforts to strengthen information security in our entire network  with the goal of developing a world-class information security system. Strengthening Information Security Management We have been adhering to the 5 Bans for customer service, strengthening the establishment of systems and  measures for information security, improving information security evaluation system and perfecting the overall  information security of our network operations. In 2011, we have mainly taken the following measures:  Improving Customer Protocol: In the updated customer agreements on service subscription and on customer  information gathering, we added a chapter about Protection of Privacy and Communications Rights, specifying  that it is the right of the customer to have freedom in communications and keep communications content secret,  China Mobile is responsible for the security of customers personal information and communications information  and other related content;  Strengthening Content Management: We developed the Regulations on Customer Information Security  Management and the Customer Information Security Control Matrix, specifying the allocation of responsibilities,  technological protocols and examination methods regarding information security management, and mapping out  the control points to conduct information security checks;  Compiling Best Practices: We compiled 28 information security solutions from 17 provincial subsidiaries and  formulated the Solutions to Customer Information Security Protection;  Formulating Administrative Rules on Information Security: We formulated dedicated administrative rules on  information security for systems involving customer information security such as WAP, MMS, SMS, Smart Network  and Network Management System;  Enhancing Personnel Management: Following the principles of focusing on key operations, requiring multiple  controls and check and balance, we formulated the Vault Mode Management Regulations which prescribed  detailed management requirements on 17 key systems, effectively reducing the risk of sensitive information  leakage by management and maintenance personnel; and  Strengthening Education and Training: We organized employee training sessions on laws and regulations with  regard to customer information security and provided systematic security training to key technological and  managerial personnel, ensuring all employees understand and comply with the relevant laws and regulations,  requirements and policies, disciplines, and regulations on penalties for violations. Handling Mobile Malware To deal with the increasing occurrences of malicious software on the Mobile Internet, we have established a daily  malicious software warning and emergency response mechanism involving multiple departments at our headquarters  and at the provincial subsidiary level and monitored malwares on the Mobile Internet. Based on the pilot programs  conducted at the provincial level, we actively promoted the construction of centralized mobile malware control  system allowing centralized identification, analysis and block of malicious software. Working at both the cloud side  and the client side, we innovated on the mobile operator-centric cloud system that uses the Mobile Internet to  analyze and detect mobile malware and clean them at the handset side precisely. By the end of 2011, we have  identified and dealt with nearly 700 varieties of mobile malicious software. With the arrangements by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT), we established mobile  malware monitoring system in both Jiangsu and Guangdong and completed the pilot programs of monitoring and  handling of mobile malware. In Jiangsu, we have developed an Internet-based active mobile malware prevention system that detects and blocks  mobile malware on the Internet. Being able to detect over 3,000 mobile malware from 400 series, the system virtu- ally covers all known mobile malware found in China and has a blocking rate of over 99%. Enhancing Security of New Technologies and Businesses In 2011, we conducted research on security related topics for new technologies and businesses such as cloud  computing, TD-LTE and the Internet of Things in order to lay out the protocols and technological framework to  ensure information security and avoid potential risks. In 2011, nearly  700  varieties of mobile   malware were identified  and dealt with  21 Advocating a Healthy Communications Culture We have established dedicated organizations and allocated specialized personnel to control the dissemination of  harmful information with a view of advocating a healthy and green communications culture. Controlling Harmful Content In 2011, on the condition of protecting customer privacy, we took steady steps to deal with obscene content on  mobile phones by streamlining management, formulating a centralized strategy and upgrading technologies. By the  end of 2011, we had found out and blocked more than 430,000 domain names, which effectively fostered a clean  Internet cultural environment and protected the minors healthy growth. Blocking Spam Messages In 2011, we actively explored the centralized model for controlling spam messages to fully enhance our spam control  capability. We established a unified databank of strategic guidance and developed a mechanism to update, evaluate  and share the information, which preliminarily solved the problem of un-unified standard in blocking spam messages  and the variances in implementation. According to the statistics of 12321 Internet Obscene and Spam Information Handling Center, the percentage of  numbers from China Mobiles network (22%) reported as being involved in spam messaging had reduced by 11%  as of December 2011. According to the statistics of our spam reporting platform 10086999, the average monthly  number of reported spam messages in 2011 had decreased by 38% compared with that of last year. Stopping Harassing Calls The increasing popularity of mobile communications has brought convenience to peoples lives on one hand. On the  other hand, however, the increasingly frequent occurrences of harassing calls have brought troubles to customers.  We have adopted various measures to stop harassing phone calls to protect our customers interests. In Gansu, we developed harassing calls monitoring system and successfully put it into operation. The system can ef- fectively identify phone calls with high calling frequency (over 30 calls per hour) and calls with extremely short dura- tion (with call duration of 0 second) and curb harassing calls intra and inter network.  In Fujian, after the 311 earthquake hit Japan, some people illegally made use of the chaotic situation in Japan to  commit telephone and SMS fraud targeting Chinese overseas students in Japan and their families. We tried to alert  users through on-site notification as well as sending SMS warnings in collaboration with the police.  Carrying out Third-party Monitoring In order to identify irregularities such as using SMS port or numbers to send spam messages and leak customer  information, we carried out third-party monitoring of violations and established a closed-loop management workflow  that consists of locating, investigating and rectification protocols. In 2011, based on the results of the third-party  monitoring, we penalized 42 partners and among them, we discontinued our cooperation with 24 partners with  serious violations. In 2011, we had realized a 38% decrease in monthly  reported spam   messages on year-to-  year basis In Guangxi, our cooperation led to  the arrest of criminals running mobile  phone frauds In 2011, based on the results of   the third-party monitoring, 42 partners were penalized among which 24 partners with  serious violations  were discontinued  cooperation SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES HIGHLIGHTS 2011 Striving for Customer Confidence  2011 Sustainability Report 22 Narrowing the Digital Divide  In 2011, in order to further narrow the digital divide, we focused on providing farmers with more  affordable communication business and services and launched informationalization applications  benefiting farmers lives and agricultural production while strengthening the rural network  construction. Meanwhile, we have thoroughly considered the special needs of disadvantaged groups,  such as the disabled, the elderly and ethnic minorities and made efforts to customize enriching  and practical communication and information services for them, thereby expanding the benefits of  informationalization to a wider group. In 2011, with our Village   Connected Project, 10,265 natural villages were  connected with mobile  telecommunications 4,031 administrative villages   were connected with  broadband In Guangxi, we provided migrant workers with discounted service packages In Qinghai, our Village Connected Project was welcomed by local residents Narrowing urban-Rural Digital Divide Narrowing the digital divide and promoting rural development are our main focuses in carrying out social responsibility and promoting sustainability. Targeting at  benefiting farmers through rural communications, distribution and information networks and assisting in building new countryside, we provide rural areas with  available, affordable and credible information communication services continuously. Constructing Rural Network In 2011, we further advanced the Project for villages to have telephone connection (Village Connected Project),  bringing mobile telecommunications to 10,265 natural villages and installing broadband in 4,031 administrative villages  across 15 provinces, including Xizang, Xinjiang and Sichuan in 2011. Due to inadequate power supply and poor network transmission quality, we adopted several measures to improve rural  network communication quality:  repaired power supply environment at base stations to improve reliability of the power circuit;  regularly discharged the lead acid batteries at base stations for assessment purposes to grasp the actual performance  of the batteries accurately;  strengthened the infrastructure maintenance work at base stations to efficiently improve batteries lifespan and  function;  studied and extended base stations anti-theft system to reduce theft rate;   integrated the infrastructure maintenance resources to promote co-construction and sharing between different  operators;  studied and developed the Uninterruptible Power Supply device to ensure network safety in power failure; and   provided more training opportunities to strengthen the construction of base stations maintenance team. Making Service More Affordable We launched the Benefiting Farmers Project to reduce communication service charges in rural areas continuously and  to provide farmers with affordable services. In 2011, we promoted the Agricultural Support Network preferential tariff in Jiangxi, Guangxi, Yunnan and other  provinces. In addition, we also carried out promotions such as Free Mobile Phone with Subscription, One Yuan  Mobile Phone with Subscription and free intra-network talk to truly bring down the cost of using communication  services by local farmers.  To address migrant workers short-term need for communications during their travels during the Spring Festival period,  we collaborated with the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security and launched the Spring Breeze Action  for three consecutive years, offering migrant workers the Two Cities, One Home discounted roaming package. In  2011, we offered a 60% discount together with free job information and free hotlines. The number of Two Cities, One  Home customers had increased from 11.87 million in 2010 to 20.1 million in 2011.  23 The Internet of Things Promoted Agricultural Water-Saving Irrigation In Xinjiang, aiming at solving current problems of water shortage and lower utilization ratio, we were the  first in Shihezi to develop and apply automatic drip irrigation controlling system. The system advances the  development of modern agricultural water-saving irrigation technology from three aspects:  Automatic drip irrigation: The system can identify irrigation quantity and duration based on collected  information of soil humidity and different irrigation requirements of crops. Users can control the  automatic irrigation through operating the switches of electromagnetic valves by mobile phones,  computers or other terminals;   Well-proportioned fertilization: The system can automatically ration nutrient solutions according to the  different fertilizing needs of crops. Users can also carry out automatic, timely and suitable irrigation and  fertilization remotely through the system; and  Automatic collections of field information: The system can carry out integrated analysis on the weather,  soil humidity, evaporation, rainfall and wind speed to monitor the growth environment of crops.  Currently, the automatic drip irrigation controlling system has achieved outstanding results in the following  three aspects:  Increasing production: Using spring wheat as an example, the average yield has reached 583 kilograms  per mu (667 square meters) under automatic drip irrigation, with an increase of 243 kilograms  compared to regular irrigation. In general calculation, the net income has increased 436 yuan per mu,  growing by 2.3 times;  Enhancing work efficiency: With the promotion and application of automatic drip irrigation controlling  system, the pipeline network has gradually replaced furrows in the field. Compared to regular cultivation  patterns, the management quota of a cotton farmer has been increased from 25-30 mu to 80-120 mu,  with labor productivity growing by 3-4 times; and  Improving ecological environment: The application of the automatic drip irrigation controlling system  has significantly improved the utilization of water resource. As of 2011, integrated with a variety of  other water-saving irrigation methods, we have achieved annual saving of more than 1 billion cubic  meters. The saved water was used in converting 100,000 mu of obsolete farmlands back to grasslands  and constructing 140,000 mu of ecological protection forests, which has transformed 70 kilometers of  desert into oasis, promoting the slogan, "Huamns march forward while deserts back down". As of December 2011, the system has expanded crops from cotton to winter wheat, spring corn, potatoes,  cayenne pepper, soybean and rice. In Shihezi, automatic irrigation had been applied in 9 farms with a total  application area of 800,000 mu, which was estimated to exceed 1.3 million mu in 2015. Narrowing the Digital Divide In Zhejiang, Farmers Mailbox helped  farmers with their business If this technology was  applied in half of Chinas  wheat fields, it will save  20 billion cubic meters of  water per year, which can  achieve the national target  of increasing 100 billion  tonnes of grain production  in just one year, and is of  great significance to ensure  national food security and  sustainable agricultural  development. Zhai Xuejun, Director of China Semi-Arid  Agricultural Engineering  Technology Research  Center SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES HIGHLIGHTS 2011 Developing Rural Information Services We continuously enrich and perfect our Rural Information Service businesses, providing a number of sub-services like  Everything Easy, Rural Job Search, Agricultural Meteorological Service and Rural Information Package covering  information involving dozens of areas such as agricultural cultivation, production-supply-distribution, rural administration  management and farmers livelihood. In January 2011, we launched the 12582 Rural Information Service 24-hour  hotline to provide customers with live information services about policy news, medical and social security, weather, legal  assistances and other live information enquiry services. As at the end of December 2011, the hotline system had been  called over 28.5 million times. We actively collaborate with the relevant stakeholders to establish rural information service platform. Under the guidance  of the Ministry of Agriculture, we initiated a number of cooperating services, including 12316 Rural Information  Service, agriculture machine dispatch information service, agriculture information collection and link-up service  between agriculture and commerce. In collaboration with the Ministry of Commerce, we established an effective link  between agricultural production and market supply and demand. In addition, we constructed the Thousands of Villages  Market Project information service platform and combined it with 12582 Rural Information Service, accelerating the  integration and operation of commodity flow, information flow and fund flow in rural areas and effectively expanding  rural information service channels. In Fujian, we jointly launched the Caring about Rural Areas and Benefiting Thousands of Families program with the  provincial agricultural office and other relevant departments where we focused on providing holistic informationalization  solutions for benchmarked enterprises from 12 agricultural industry groups in the province. For example, we cooperated  with Ningde Fishing Association to establish the Easy Trading Platform, which shortened the sales process of Ningde  fishing industry and provided more room for developing the cross-strait fishery trade. Assisting Modern Agricultural Development We have actively explored the combination of the Internet of Things applications and agriculture, adopted greenhouse  remote monitoring technology in Anhui, Shandong, Gansu, Xinjiang and other provinces and districts. We also innovated  on automatic drip irrigation and water conservancy informationalization, accelerated the transition from traditional to  modern agriculture and effectively advanced the sustainable development of agriculture.  2011 Sustainability Report 24 In Shandong, we offered customized  Bright Card service to visually impaired customers In Guangxi, our employee learnt Hmong language during her spare time and provided  the most professional and sincere services to Miao village Serving Disadvantaged groups Promoting informationalization for the benefit of the disabled, elderly and ethnic minorities forms a significant part of our work to comprehensively narrow the  digital divide. In 2011, we further developed communications products and services to satisfy the demand of the special groups and provide them with convenient  communications and living services. Information Services for the Disabled In order to help the disabled to easily communicate with others, we  continuously provide them with tariff discounts through customized  packages, free monthly rental and text messages and call charges donations,  reducing the communication cost of the disabled. In Sichuan, we established a Love V Network, aiming at helping the dis- abled people in Mianyang City. People who joined the network could directly  dial 3 to 6 short numbers to call others and also enjoy huge tariff discounts.  We also assigned special account managers to provide door-to-door services  for the disabled. As of 31 December 2011, network users had reached 7,140. In Shandong, in collaboration with the provincial federation of the disabled  and provincial foundation for disabled persons, we launched the Momentous  Love and Joy in Assisting the Disabled program. We helped the disabled to  receive information on education, training, health recovery and human rights  protection at home by producing a free information platform, assisted them  in securing jobs and improved their living standards across 17 cities in the en- tire province. Innovative Information Services for the Elderly China is continuing to become an elderly society and the number of empty  nest families has increased significantly. According to the statistics, currently  empty nest families have surpassed 50% in both cities and rural areas,  with the number increasing to 70% in some large and medium-sized cities.  The question of how to care for the elderly becomes more pressing. We have  fully considered the need of the elderly in their daily life and innovated on  information services for them through customized terminals. In Hebei, by collaborating with the government of Baoding since 2010, we  have set up the Community Access Solution. We have assigned to each el- derly a free wireless Community Access Solution terminal which connected  the housekeeping service platform in the community through positioning  technology to provide emergency assistance, daily life assistances and caring  services for the elderly. By the end of 2011, we had assigned 55,000 termi- nals, received more than 290,000 calls through the 12349 hotline and 425  requests for help through the 12580995 assistance platform, successfully  helping 323 elderly people due to timely rescue services. Information Services for Ethnic Minorities We show great respect towards the special needs of our customers on  languages and religious cultures by launching special information services  to promote the popularity of informationalization and to enhance the  dissemination of special cultural communication in ethnic minority  communities. In Xinjiang, after launching services of Masher Card, Uyghur-language  Color Ring and Uyghur-language Mobile Paper, we initiated the 12580  Uyghur-language Information Service and promoted it throughout the entire  province. In Xizang, we established a Tibetan-language operating platform, marking  a few innovations in the field of Tibetan-language based mobile application.  We have also developed main stream mobile phone systems covering nearly  100 mobile phone products which can be written in the Tibetan language,  including text messages, news, life knowledge and Chinese-Tibetan transla- tion service.  25 Enabling a Better life with Innovative Information Solutions In 2011, we actively promoted the development of the Internet of Things  and the foundation for developing Wireless City. We had already completed  the development of the Internet of Things applications in the agricultural,  industrial and service sectors. The application of these information technologies  have brought enhanced convenience to the public, improved production safety  and living standard, and achieved higher efficiency in industry developments. Constructing Wireless City We take full advantage of our edge in information technologies to actively promote the construction of Wireless  City, integrating Wireless City with public administration, public services, traffic control, healthcare, education,  employment, finance and shopping, as well as advancing the development of mobile media and diversification of mobile  applications. As of the end of 2011, we had signed Wireless City strategic cooperating agreements with 31 provinces, autonomous  regions and directly-administered municipalities, and 217 cities, and a national coverage had been established generally  covering 50 major applications in 10 categories.  Regarding specific applications, The location-based services have been or are in the process of being implemented in  26 provinces, which focus on providing one-stop travel applications combining functions such as surrounding search,  public transportation/driving route inquiry, WLAN hotspots and real-time traffic conditions with positioning ability. The  development of mobile payment services has been commenced in 29 provinces focusing on applications for paying utility  bills, paying phone bills, making group purchase and booking movie tickets. In Beijing, Guangzhou, Chongqing, Fuzhou,  Nanchang, Taiyuan, Xian and other cities, people are able to visit Wireless City to obtain information on hospitals,  doctors and availability of medical appointments as well as to make doctor appointments. Enabling a Better Life with Innovative Information Solutions Wireless City is a wireless  broadband information  network system which  takes advantage of  a number of wireless  broadband technologies  and covers the whole city  or main districts. Wireless  City aims at connecting  information technologies  and the Internet whenever  and wherever possible,  developing abundant  wireless information  applications closely  related to government  administration, business  operations and peoples  lives, acting as a bridge  connecting government  agencies and their services  with customers, offering  the public one-stop daily  life information services  and providing government  and corporate customers  with city management  and industry application  services. SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES HIGHLIGHTS 2011 Improving public services Narrowing digital divide Improving government  efficiency Reducing cost of administration Improving standards of living Promoting economic  development Optimizing investment  environment Strengthening public security Wireless City  2011 Sustainability Report 26 In Guangxi, our employee was demonstrating the Mobile Health system to medical workers at the emergency center of Luzhai Coun- ty People's Hospital In Anhui, we launched an intelligent  medical treatment program Informationalization Promoting Enhanced Healthcare Healthcare is a vital social issue closely connected with peoples standards of living. In 2011, we focused on the  healthcare industry as one of the main industries to develop corporate customer services and launched pilot programs  of informationalization for hospital treatment, community health management and rural medical care in 7 provincial  subsidiaries. Informationalization of Hospital Treatment In order to efficiently deal with the problems of long waiting time for making doctor appointments, receiving  consultations and obtaining prescription drugs, we have made substantial efforts to build a remote platform for  making medical appointment by utilizing our nationwide information services such as the 12580 voice services and  Mobile Internet, the Internet, SMS and MMS. Currently, our appointment service has been conducted by 22 provincial  subsidiaries, with more than 600 class-2 and class-3 hospitals participating in the system. We provide hospitals, doctors and patients with informationalization for their convenient communications, establishing  medical digital platforms to promote the mobilization of clinical consultation. In Henan, we established a 3D Mutual Access Platform for Zhengzhou Renmin Hospital by adopting a series of infor- mationalization applications including: building a database connecting its internal mailboxes with 139 Mailbox to achieve  the connection between all departments of the hospital and to implement electronic management of patients records;  launching the MAS service to enable customers to directly visit the united information platform to acquire medical infor- mation through mobile phone; building the Mobile Calling Center to provide patients with comprehensive services  of emergency treatment, doctor appointment and consultation in order to promote interactions between doctors and  patients. Informationalization of Emergency Healthcare In 2011, we further enhanced the research on and application of informationalization in emergency medical treatment,  which had enhanced the timely rendering of emergency medical assistances.  In Shanghai, the government project 120 Medical Emergency Call Positioning System was officially launched with our  participation. Using advanced positioning technology, whenever a mobile phone user in Shanghai dials the medical  emergency number 120, the callers position would be promptly and accurately identified by the emergency center. In Guangxi, we launched the systematic technical research project in relation to medical emergency in both urban and  rural areas. The system comprises a call center, a GPS monitoring center, an ambulance terminal and a remote terminal  in hospital and includes a number of sub-systems including call control management, ambulance position monitoring,  automatic ambulance dispatch, geographical information, voice and video communications and remote medical assis- tances. The project centralizes the emergency numbers for different hospitals, transmitting data wirelessly in complicated  geographical environments and realizing remote information sharing between doctors and patients. By the end of 2011,  the system had made 6,669 ambulance dispatches and received 5,247 patients cumulatively.  27 Informationalization of Community Healthcare To benefit the community and streamline the process of obtaining medical diagnosis, we have actively explored and  developed information solutions for community healthcare. In Shanghai, we developed a comprehensive solution of Remote Healthcare, Cooperative Consultation by provid- ing doctors and medical experts with real-time voice and video conferences to conduct remote diagnoses for pa- tients. The solution also provides community doctors with medical advice and demonstration of medical procedures,  which has led to enhanced convenience for local residents.  In Jiangsu, we launched the Community General Practitioner Workstation which consisted of a service platform,  wireless diagnostic equipments and a TD terminal. Following-up on service requests from local residents, the service  platform arranged doctor visits and provided emergency services to the patients. The examination results from the  wireless diagnostic equipment could be uploaded to the service platform through the TD terminal conveniently. The  uploaded information became accessible to doctors and patients alike in real-time. In addition, the platform was able  to conduct preliminary analysis of the testing results and saved the information in electronic archives to assist with  the doctors work. The workstation has changed the model how community doctors work and promoted the devel- opment of mobile community healthcare. Informationalization of Rural Healthcare System We devote ourselves to improving healthcare in rural areas through informationalization and helping farmers  overcome difficulties of inadequate and expensive medical services.  In Guizhou, in collaboration with the provincial Department of Health, we co-founded and promoted the New Rural  Cooperative Medical Services (NRCMS) information management system. The system has 10 main functions: partici- pation management, subsidy management, settlement management, business monitoring, fund monitoring, one- card-pass in the province, decision-making analysis, automatic statistics, five-level (province-city-county-township-vil- lage) connections and information publication. Currently, the NRCMS has covered 72 counties and 1,083 townships,  connecting a network of 10,256 medical units and benefiting 23.99 million participating farmers, among which  13.02 million farmers have received claims and subsidies through this platform. In Jiangxi, we developed an Intelligent NRCMS platform focusing on four aspects: raising farmers subsidy fund, en- hancing NRCMS information system, improving network accessibility and building an integrated information service  platform. As of the end of 2011, we had already signed NRCMS construction cooperation agreements with 28 coun- ties and developed over 3,200 NRCMS access points at the township level, creating strong support for improving  farmers participation rate. Remote Healthcare Opens a New Era for Rural People To alleviate farmers difficulties of inadequate and expensive medical service, we launched the first Dedicated  High Definition Telemedicine System Project in Shuozhou, Shanxi in March, 2009. Currently, the project has  finished the construction of one municipal-level medical and health information center and 19 remote medical  diagnosis centers, including 1 municipal-level, 5 county-levels and 13 township-levels. We have achieved  connections of multiple excellent medical resources, with functions of remote expert diagnosis, remote medical  devices diagnosis, remote doctor visiting, remote education, remote examinations and video conferences.  After developing to a certain scale, we will cooperate and integrate with other medical information systems,  including the NRCMS, Residents Health Record System, Regional Health Information Platform, Electronic  Medical Records and Disease Prevention and Control System to form a large-scale medical information system  in Shuozhou.  Mr. Zhao is from Xiaoshikou village in Ying County, Shanxi Province. He caught the disease of purpura  nephritis when he was 17-year-old. He had received disease control treatment in Beijing and then returned  home with continuous medication, but the effects were not good. Considering the high expenditure of further  consultation, he decided to accept treatment in the remote medical diagnosis center in Ying County. After  careful medical records analysis and medical adjustment provided by nephropathy experts from Women and  Children Health Care Hospital of Shanxi province, his condition had improved significantly within a month and  he completely recovered in 3.5 months after 4 remote treatments. In Guizhou, by the end of  2011, with the NRCMS, 1,083 townships were covered 10,256 medical units were  connected 23.99 million  participating farmers  benefited 13.02 million  farmers had received   claims and subsidies In Guizhou, farmers received prompt medical  expense reimbursement with the NRCMS SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES HIGHLIGHTS 2011 Enabling a Better Life with Innovative Information Solutions  2011 Sustainability Report 28 Informationalization Supporting Campus Construction In order to promote communications and interactions among schools, parents, students and the society, improve  information management in schools and enhance the safety of students, in 2011, we actively promoted the  informationalization construction in campus. Promoting Educational Interactions In 2011, we continued to expand our Campus Information Service. By the end of the year, the Campus Information  Service had covered more than 115,000 schools, with over 74,000 urban primary and middle schools, 17,000 urban  kindergartens and more than 52.32 million users.  In Tianjin, we worked together with Tianjin Womens Federation to build the Tianjin On-line Parents School. The plat- form covers 9 main columns such as news express, care, expert on-line, parent classes and more than 20 subsections,  which encourages full utilization of education resources and builds bridge for communications among schools, families  and the society. In Jilin, we developed the Digital Schools Integrated Information project and established informationalization portal  website with content of the latest school news, class selection system and teacher recruitment management system. This  provides students, parents and teachers with integrated information services, which have significantly helped parents  gain a comprehensive understanding of the teaching and learning process and promoted efficient communications. Protecting Campus Safety Based on services such as card-reading identification at school entrances and students positioning by special mobile  phones, we further promoted the construction of Safe Schools and actively developed more innovative information  applications to establish platforms for parents and students.  In Shandong, we officially ran the Safe School Buses system, which combines a special telephone line with the Cam- pus Information Service. Parents can receive SMS about the time and place of students getting on or off school buses,  the bus plate number and route information. Parents could also receive reminder messages and the expected arrival time  if school buses were late. Meanwhile, the mobile video monitoring device on school buses can also allow parents and  teachers to learn students safety conditions in the buses at all times, providing safeguards for the safety of the minors. In Henan, we launched a Baby On-line project in Luoyang which provides parents and kindergartens with on-line  mobile video services. Parents and the kindergarten managers can learn childrens real-time study and living conditions  through their mobile phones remotely and better ensure the safety of the children. By the end of 2011, with the  Campus Information Service, over 115,000 schools were covered over 52.32 million users were covered over 74,000 urban primary and middle  schools were covered over 17,000 urban kindergartens were  covered We signed a strategic cooperation agreement with the Ministry of Education to promote  informationalization for education In Anhui, the customized Kids Phone developed by us helped protect campus safety  for the non-adults  29 Informationalization Facilitating Peoples lives In 2011, we paid our attention to the publics needs. We developed and provided ample information communication  services to build a more convenient lifestyle in the areas that are closely connected with daily lives such as food safety,  public payment and transportation. Protecting Food Safety With increasing public concerns about food safety, the monitoring of food quality and safety has played an increasingly  important role. In 2011, we further enhanced the promotion of information applications regarding animal sourcing  and food sourcing, placed radio frequency identification (RFID) or two-dimensional bar code labels in food to record  and monitor all stages of food production. Consumers can scan identification codes to obtain information of the food  which helps to promote safe consumption. Currently, we have already included 2 billion farmed animals in our animal sourcing system which comprises more  than 150,000 card-reading inquiry terminals. The system has built a three-dimensional food monitoring network which  involves consumers, supervisors and producers, efficiently promoting the animal food monitoring management and  related information disclosure. In Ningxia, in view of the sales of fake selenium sand melons, we built a Ningxia Agricultural Products Sourcing Sys- tem platform to record all information in the process from production, packaging, sales to consumption of selenium  sand melons. The system can help the relevant government departments to swiftly monitor and investigate the fake sele- nium sand melons and enable consumers to verify the authenticity of the melons in real time. SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES HIGHLIGHTS 2011 Enabling a Better Life with Innovative Information Solutions Diagram of Agricultural Products Sourcing System Internet Internet Central Sourcing  platform Report  collected  information Government  Supervision Production  Management Sales Management Customer  Tracing  2011 Sustainability Report 30 Improving Quality of life with Services We have continued to enrich informationalization applications for individuals  and delivered convenience to the public in the areas of making enquiries  about public utilities, payment services and mobile payments. Currently,  residents in a number of cities can register at the Wireless City portal  websites to acquire information about water, electricity, gas, social security  and housing funds. In some cities, the service of on-line payment has already  been available and has effectively solved the problem of excessive queuing  and waiting when making payments.  In Beijing, collaborating with the municipal government, we launched My  Beijing platform for residents using mobile phones customized service plat- form. The platform covers a total of 59 services in 9 categories, including  road condition inquiry, housing fund inquiry, administration mail box, on-line  people livelihood services, which is an important part of public service con- struction of Beijing Wireless City. Aiming at migrant workers, we issued an innovative Mobile Remittance  service using China Mobile phone numbers as identification for remittance  information which eliminated the need to memorize complicated information  such as bank account numbers. Furthermore, Mobile Remittance provides  customers with SMS remittance notes, through which, remittance and  payment information can be received in a timely manner. The service is  particularly convenient for rural customers who have no bank card. Facilitating Public Transportation Through the Wireless City platform, we provide citizens with traffic  conditions and travel route information to improve public travel efficiency. In Fujian, collaborating with bicycle operating companies, we piloted the  construction of Information Public Bicycle Rental Station. Based on our  Mobile Payment service, we provided residents and tourists with mobile elec- tronic wallet service, allowing convenient bicycle rental, return and payment  by using the e-wallet card. Meanwhile, we connected the Fujian Wireless  City with all service channels offering convenient information services such  as Bicycle Rental Station Finder and Bicycle Availability Check. In Guangdong, we cooperated closely with the tourism industry under guid- ance of the provincial Tourism Bureau and launched the Tourism Information  Service to provide services of inquiries and searches of vacation plans, en- trance tickets, hotels, flight tickets and discount activities and on-line book- ing based on 3G mobile Internet technology and Wireless City platform.  Tourists can also learn about related tour information through the positioning  function. In addition, the Tourism Information Service can also realize the  mutual interactions between tourists and tour groups to enhance safety of  travelling. In Jiangxi, targeting at the publics traffic problem from large scale traffic  routes transformation in Nanchang, we launched MyBus service, allowing  residents to check buss real-time location, choose travel routes, stations and  waiting times, which has solved residents difficulties of bus waiting and sig- nificantly improved travel efficiency. Since being online, the service had been  attracting over 50,000 visits daily. Building Safe Communities We continuously innovated and developed location information application  systems which are applied in disaster and emergency reliefs including fire  fighting and flood prevention, contributing to protecting the public safety. In Shanghai, we built a fire safety information platform by sending fire safety  knowledge to firemen at all levels through SMS monthly. Meanwhile, we also  assisted Shanghai Fire Bureau in establishing a fire engines position monitor- ing platform which can track the location and the routes of the fire engines  in a real-time manner and provide strong support for the fire relief dispatch  and management.  In Guangdong, we established an intelligent electric fire monitoring system  based on GIS with GIS system and sound, light and smoke sensing devices,  which can report fire accidents at the earliest opportunity. The system can  quickly identify the exact location of fire emergency according to the fire  alarm information, which is important in ensuring timely and accurate dis- patch of fire-fighting and rescue services.  In Sichuan, we constructed a Natural Disaster and Flooding Alarm Service  system with the cooperation of the provincial Department of Land and Re- sources to collect and transmit real-time data of remote monitoring, video,  displacement and rainfall. The system can automatically send warning data  to flood fighters mobile phones to report information about flooding, rain- storm and mud slides, which has effectively strengthened the publics capacity  against natural disasters. In Gansu, a City Card user was paying for purchase with mobile phone  31 In Guangxi, people used our customized phone to watch media coverage of the World Hakka Conference In Anhui, the little journalists were  experiencing our Mobile TV Informationalization Supporting Cultural Heritage Improving the whole nations civilization quality and promoting cultural innovation are important objectives for cultural  development in the next five years. We promote and develop new media applications including Mobile Paper, Mobile  Reading and Mobile TV, enriching the dissemination channels for social culture. In May 2010, we launched our Mobile Reading service, which has gathered more than 270,000 digital products  encompassing books, magazines, comics and audio books by the end of 2011, attracted more than 60 million customers  monthly and more than 400 million clicks daily on average and formed the biggest reading platform for copyrighted  digital products in China. Relying on Mobile Reading Base and integrating with social hot spots, we held various reading activities, encouraging  more people to read and promoting the dissemination of classic culture.  Held New Youth Palm Reading Plan theme activities. Using mobile phones as an innovative means of cultural  dissemination and reading, we recommended excellent books and classical reading materials to the working class,  young white collars and students.  Held large-scaled Reading Classics to Experience Life reading activities, integrated and recommended the notable  contents about history, literature, biographies, famous Chinese traditional culture, social and technical education from  selected books in the mobile libraries.  Held a series of activities such as Masters Lecture Forums, Masters Face-to-Face and Masters Signing Sessions  to enrich peoples reading experience in 45 cities including Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Yanan. In Zhejiang, in view of the problems of high costs of constructing and managing libraries in enterprises, we launched  the Enterprises Palm Library reading product which features different functions including gift books, recommenda- tions of good books and data statistics. Further, the product also offers the services of customized portals which enable  the managers to recommend reading materials to their employees conveniently, fostering a healthy corporate learning  culture. In Anhui, we initiated the Thousands of Websites Creating Civilized Networks event held by the provincial Depart- ment of Communications to advocate for a harmonious and green network culture. With activities such as SMS Relay,  we actively promoted a positive mobile phone culture through a variety of channels including SMS, songs and music,  Mobile Reading and Mobile Paper. In Hebei, we started the Red Leaf Club to maintain close interactions with our customers. Through this platform, we  collaborated with the provincial Office of Civilization and other organizations and co-hosted the Spreading Civilization,  Praising Our Hometown and Depicting the Future event, asking our customers to compose and submit SMS messages,  music, videos and Mobile Reading pieces with the goal of creating a civilized, healthy and positive mobile phone and In- ternet culture. SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES HIGHLIGHTS 2011 Enabling a Better Life with Innovative Information Solutions In 2011, China Mobile Reading  Platform had over 60 million visits per month over 400 million clicks daily  2011 Sustainability Report 32 Developing the Cloud Platform to Build an E Mine In Shandong, we developed a Safe Production Information Cloud  Computing Platform for mining companies, built the E Mine  Integrated Information Management System for each mine and  integrated all of them on the Cloud Computing Platform at the  headquarters in order to help the management understand the  safety conditions whenever and wherever possible. The E Mine  Integrated Information Management System has the following  five main functions:  Safety and production data monitoring: We installed  underground production environment monitoring devices  including temperature transducers, gas concentration  transducers and oxygen content transducers. The information  will be transferred to the ground monitoring center through  communications network which will be analyzed and sent to all  the terminals;  Miner/vehicle positioning management: We installed RFID in the  underground work equipment and fixed card readers in tunnels  to realize remotely monitoring, tracking and dispatching miners  and vehicles underground;  Output statistics: We fixed weighing transducers at coal  discharge holes and belt conveyors and transferred weighing  data to the statistics platform through wireless networks;  Statement management: The information of the production  volume can be checked in a real-time manner which includes  daily production schedules, daily safety management statements  and individualized items such as key project modules and  hidden safety hazards solution modules; and  Mobile office: We sent notifications to the relevant employees  through SMS, provided Company Mobile Paper through  MMS, generated statements according to operating data and  sent them to the management personnel, filled out various  working diaries and sent them to the dispatching platform for  consolidation. The system has provided successful advance warnings for more  than 30 times with a success rate of 100% since its introduction  in the mines in 2010 and has played an important role in safety  management. Informationalization Serving Production Management Leveraging on the advantages of our 3G networks and the Internet of Things technology, we provide information solutions of production management and  routine monitoring services to industries such as mining, metallurgy, iron and steel, power grid and plant and construction, promoting industrial safety, efficiency  and sustainability. Ensuring Production Safety in Mines To improve safety monitoring level and safe production condition in mines and effectively prevent and reduce accidents, we actively explore digital applications in  mines and make efforts to gradually realize comprehensive, transparent and dynamic management of the operations in underground mines. Enhancing Protection and Preservation of Forests We actively developed information technologies and devices which can execute fire positioning and real-time monitoring and directing to enhance forest security.  In Heilongjiang, we launched the Eye in the Sky project in Yichun to build a monitoring system integrating the functions of fire monitoring, identification of  warning signals and geographical information system. The project could detect fire sources promptly with rotating cameras, transfer clear pictures to the com- mand center and facilitate remote dispatch. With the fire-prevention positioning function, the command center could master the exact positions of the relief  teams, their distributions and proceedings to deploy the relief work reasonably and minimize losses caused by fire. At the same time, the system could also record  the whole relief process from the beginning to the extinguishment of the fire and keep real and effective historical information in order to improve fire prevention  and relief operations. In Gansu, we devoted ourselves to the comprehensive information project of  Jinchuan Second Mine and established base stations in the mine, completing  the construction of four main application systems: wireless network cover- age, underground miner and vehicle positioning, traffic guidance in main and  branch roads and time attendance access. We also installed a large screen  display system on the ground to show the number of underground miners and  their positions, quantity of vehicles and their operation conditions, realizing in- tegrated communications on the ground and underground and improving the  capacities of underground safety dispatch and emergency guidance. In Gansu, Mine Integrated Information Project ensured production safety of mining operations  33 Optimizing Management System In 2011, we continued to improve our environmental and energy management system under the guidance of the ISO 50001 energy management system:  Setting goals: We made the China Mobile Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction Plan for 2011-2015 Period under the guidance of the national and  industry reduction goals, specifying our reduction goals and implementation systems for the next five years.  Strengthening evaluation: We carried out third-party interim evaluation on our implementation of Voluntary Energy Conservation Agreement in collaboration  with China Energy Conservation Association and the Communications Network Operation & Maintenance Committee of China Association of Communication  Enterprises. We worked with Det Norske Veritas and Beijing University of Post and Telecommunications and conducted third-party energy efficiency auditing.  We also compiled the China Mobile Management Rules for Energy Efficiency Evaluation (Provisional) to make energy efficiency evaluation on base stations,  communication equipment rooms and management offices a part of our regular work.  Adopting proved applications: We upgraded and adopted energy saving grading standards for equipment and promoted a number of proved technologies,  such as smart carrier frequency technology, distributive base station and multi-carrier frequency amplification. We also conserved energy by utilizing natural  cooling sources, increasing ambient temperature in base stations and implementing energy efficiency upgrades of data centers and Internet data centers (IDC).  Strengthening appraisal management: We included energy conservation and emissions reduction into our appraisal system and broke down the indicators to  provincial subsidiaries and lower level. Units and individuals with excellent appraisal results will be recognized and awarded.  Enhancing exchange and communication: We launched a nationwide campaign named Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction Week and attended  the Second World Low Carbon and Ecological Economy and Technology Fair, Sino-U.S. Green ICT Conference and the China International Exhibition of  Innovative Green Technological Products as an energy conservation pilot enterprise. Meanwhile, as a founder member of Green Touch, we were elected to  board member and vice chairman of the Service, Application and Trend Committee (SAT), which allows us to better promote energy efficiency improvement  work. Managing Environmental Impacts China has set the goal of reducing energy consumption by 16% per unit of GDP during the 2011-2015  period. As early as 2009, China Mobile had already committed to reducing electricity consumption by  20% per unit of telecommunications traffic by 2012 compared with 2008 and signed the first Voluntary  Energy Conservation Agreement in Chinas communications industry. To achieve the above target, we fully  implement Green Action Plan, to manage our own environmental impacts and improve energy efficiency  in operation. In 2011, electricity consumption per unit of telecommunications traffic decreased by 11%  compared with the last year, saving electricity of 1.6 billion kWh. C-Aware Application Study on Carbon Footprint Managing Environmental Impacts SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES HIGHLIGHTS 2011 Conducting Energy Auditing In order to make a comprehensive evaluation of our energy  management and energy conservation and emissions reduction  performance, analyze energy conservation potentials and identify  directions for improvement, in 2011, we conducted an energy  auditing in collaboration with Det Norske Veritas and Beijing  University of Post and Telecommunications. The project team  made site visits to 10 cities in Guangdong, Sichuan and Jilin and  audited 95 base stations, 32 service halls, 9 multi-use buildings, 9  telecommunications equipment buildings and 8 office buildings.  The team also audited the documents of three provincial  subsidiaries on energy management policies, systems and energy  consumption statistics. In addition, the team developed an energy  conservation potential evaluation model to forecast our potential  in energy conservation and emissions reduction in the future. We worked together with the University of Cambridge and  Nottingham University in the UK to conduct a joint research  project on electricity conservation. The research aims to find a  way to improve the efficiency of the equipments through energy  conservation in terms of the production environment and to  visualize energy consumption information to achieve energy  savings by applying intensive management in terms of the office  environment. Meanwhile, the research focuses on developing  new ICT energy saving innovations based on studies of human  behaviors to raise the awareness of energy conservation and  change peoples behaviors accordingly.  2011 Sustainability Report 34 In Tianjin, we innovated on adding infrared cameras into our video surveillance system. The infrared cameras can automat- ically adjust to black-and-white mode at night when lighting is switched off, allowing continuous surveillance in darkness.  This upgrade was able to reduce lighting electricity consumption by around 75% at the equipment rooms. green Service In addition to enhancing operational efficiency and improving customers perception, electronic services can also  effectively reduce physical resources and result in lower environmental impact. In 2011, we made significant progress  of energy saving in business operation by adopting paperless business process and e-billing and the business conducted  through electronic channels has reached 76%. Base Stations Energy  Conservation  Added intelligent electricity saving  functions to 6.72 million carrier  frequencies; deployed 2.01 million  MCPA carrier frequencies; constructed  620,000 distributive GSM base stations;  and installed over 8,000 sets of  standardized outdoor base stations;  Cumulatively deployed 79,000 base  stations and 673 equipment rooms to  utilize natural cooling sources;  Cumulatively adopted over 11,000  customized air conditioners, upgraded  over 160,000 air conditioners to improve  energy efficiency, applied new additives  to over 57,000 air conditioners; and  optimized the outward structure of over  60,000 base stations; and  Constructed 8,970 alternative energy  base stations cumulatively. Reducing Energy Consumption in Operations We are highly concerned about our own energy consumption and environmental impact in every aspect of our  operation. We fully reduce our energy and resources consumption from three aspects including green network, green  service and green office. green Network In 2011, aiming at establishing an energy-efficient green network, we made great efforts to save energy in base stations  and equipment rooms and jointly constructed and shared base stations.   Intensified the promotion of energy conservation technologies for main equipment: We strived to promote the  technologies and applications such as base station intelligent electricity saving technology, MCPA carrier frequency,  distributive base stations and outdoor equipment cabinet.  Built green equipment rooms: We actively implemented air-conditioning energy conservation in equipment rooms and  adopted renewable energy to optimize the energy structure.   Advanced joint construction and sharing of base stations: We developed appraisal measures and communicated with  other operators on base station construction plan to increase the number of jointly constructed base stations and their  percentage in newly-constructed base stations. We also made efforts to develop industry standards such as technology  requirements for joint construction and sharing of base stations to ensure standardized operation. Equipment Room Energy Conservation  Conducted air flow optimization of 722 equipment rooms  cumulatively, applied condenser water spray cooling technology  to 4,200 air conditioners; installed grouped air conditioner  controller device in 164 equipment rooms; and  Installed 220,000 power on/off /dormant switches and 80,000  high-efficiency power switch modules. Joint Construction and Sharing  Achieved excellent results of joint construction and sharing  in major areas: Joint construction and sharing projects were  completed or under construction at over 40 railways, subway  lines in 16 cities, over 60 expressways, 12 airports, over 40  tourist attractions and over 50 large malls or stadiums; and  Constructed a total of 12,255 base stations and opened 6,965  base stations for sharing with other operators. Management of E-document  Saving storage space;   Reducing labor and materials  incurred during transportation; and  Simplifying information searching  process. E-billing  Promoting e-billing and reducing printing  and sending of paper-based bills;   Improving internet and mobile phone  services platforms and self-service  terminals; and  Sending service updates to customers via  SMS/ MMS. China Mobile green Service Measures Paperless Service Processing  Replacing paper forms with electronic forms;   Replacing customer ID photocopies with scanned  and encrypted electronic ones;   Replacing seals with electronic ones ; and  Sending e-service notices to customers by SMS/ MMS instead of paper ones. green Network  35 Promoting green Building The construction of China Mobile International Information Port follows the principles of utility, economical, appealing and environmentally friendly. In  the first two phases, a number of energy saving systems have been adopted, including equipment room excess heat recovering, natural air-cycling, roof- top greening, coldness storage with ice and waste vacuum recycling. In addition, the building realized intelligent control of equipment with technologies,  such as intelligent control, network-based control and digital lighting control; reduced carbon emissions by using renewable energy sources, such as  underground heat pump and solar power system; and reduced water use by installing ecological lake water cycling system, rainwater collecting system  and reclaimed water recycling system, which allow the landscape lake to be replenished 100% by recycled water. In addition, China Mobile Telecommunications Management Academy implemented a geothermal utilization and reinjection project, which extracts  223,000 cubic meters of underground heat water annually and the amount of heat utilized is equal to the reduction of 1,023 tonnes of standard coal  every year. In Hubei, customers signed up for service  contracts on a handwriting screen green Office In 2011, we continued to take measures to promote our green office initiative:  Upgraded office buildings: We upgraded our headquarters building with intelligent control system, which turns off  lights in conference rooms and offices automatically when there is no one there. Some of our provincial subsidiaries  also implemented similar projects to reduce energy consumption.   Energy saving of office equipment: We required every unit to minimize the stand-by time of office equipment, such  as computers, printers and copy machines and turn them off in time if they are not in use for a long period of time  or after office hour. We also urged our employees to develop the habit of shutting off lights, computers, power and  water when they leave.   Office informationalization: We reduced resource and energy consumption by applying information technology in our  office work. In 2011, in average, there were over 22,000 person-times logged on to our IP Multi-media Sub-system  (IMS) daily and the system was used to make 52,000 calls with a total of 434,000 minutes and send 72,000 instant  messages daily.  Reduced consumption of office supplies: We asked our employees to make effective use of electronic documents  transmission system to send, receive and process documents, control the number of printing and copying, try to review  and modify draft documents electronically and reduce the number of final proofs. We also required every unit to print  on double sides and reuse one-side printed paper. We also tightened our control over purchase of office supplies such  as pencils, pens and recycled paper.  Fostered a green office culture: We put up posters and flyers about energy conservation and relevant tips in the office  to remind everyone to save paper and water and turn off lights when they leave. Managing Environmental Impacts SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES HIGHLIGHTS 2011 Paperless Service Processing Electronic forms Reducing  paper use and  convenient to  use 1 Electronic ID copy Reducing  photocopying  and convenient  to use 2 Electronic signature Reducing number of  signatures required  and improving  processing efficiency 3 Electronic  acceptance seal Reducing cost for  making the seals 4 Electronic information  management Paperless information,  easy to store, lookup  and manage 5 Covering the entire business processing workflow Currently, mobile business acceptance receipts and invoices are still processed in a paper-based way and both our customers and we need to keep a set  of copies of various relevant paper forms and invoices. This practice not only uses a significant amount of paper, but also makes its storage and searching  a difficult task. By adopting paperless service processing, we can reduce paper use, simplify work procedure and improve services efficiency. In Shanxi, we fully transformed into paperless services on the condition of ensuring data accuracy and data security. We actively promoted the use of  electronic forms, electronic ID copies, electronic signatures, electronic acceptance seals and electronic information management. By the end of 2011, the  transformation into paperless services has been completed in 7,300 service desks of all of the 11 cities in the entire province. About 2.85 million business  requests were handled paperless, accounting for approximately 60% of the total service volume. Each set of paper forms used to cost 0.09 yuan, therefore  a total cost saving of 2.139 million yuan could be realized from cutting the printing related costs. Besides reducing paper use, paperless service has  significantly improved work efficiency and customers experience. More than 92% of customers interviewed agreed that paperless service made our service  processing more convenient.  2011 Sustainability Report 36 Enhancing Resource utilization In 2011, we continued to promote resource conservation and reduce environmental impacts through adopting mini- sized SIM cards, recycling electronic waste and other activities. Promoting Environmentally Friendly SIM Cards In 2008, after launching SIM card solutions for energy conservation and emissions reduction, we intensified our efforts in  promoting environment friendly mini-sized SIM cards. As of the end of 2011, the market share of mini-sized SIM Cards  had reached 50%, and we had issued 1.09 billion mini-sized SIM cards accumulatively. As of the end of 2011, our efforts have cumulatively helped avoid 6,000 tonnes of white pollution, reduce 18,000  tonnes of production material usage and reduce carbon emissions by 65 tonnes. These results are equivalent to the  results of avoiding using 1.3 billion plastic bags. Electronic Waste Recycling We have been strengthening our efforts in recycle of used batteries. In 2011, we had a total of 95.88 million ampere  hours of batteries recycled by specialized channels. Meanwhile, we continued to carry out Green Boxes in Community  Campaign, encouraging our provincial subsidiaries to take united actions and carry out community visits to recycle  unwanted mobile phones and batteries as well as promote the development of a green culture. In Guangdong, we continued to expand the coverage of the Green Boxes Environmental Protection Program. As of  the end of 2011, there were 1,277 self-owned service halls above county-level that had set up Green Boxes, reaching a  coverage rage of 100%. A total of 62,427 pieces of unwanted mobile phones, batteries and other accessories had been  collected. In addition, we continued to improve the process of dealing with used batteries in terms of their collection  and handling. As of the end of 2011, we had disposed and recycled a total of 191,870 pieces of batteries in the entire  province. Regarding SIM recycling, we started recycling and reusing SIM cards in bulk. As of the end of 2011, we had  recycled 85,000 SIM cards in the entire province, among which 52,000 were reused. In Tianjin, we took the opportunity of the 42nd Earth Day to call on the community to participate in the recycling  of unwanted mobile phones, batteries and accessories. In this campaign, over 200 of our service halls set up Green  Boxes to collect unwanted mobile phones and batteries. We also provided 10,000 gifts to local residents who partici- pated in the event. 2011 China Mobile Eco-friendly SIM Cards Started downsizing SIM card packages  after using environmentally friendly  materials in producing card bases. As  of the end of 2011, we have issued  1.09 billion mini-sized SIM cards  accumulatively. Reduced resource consumption in the  logistic and selling process significantly  with efforts in promoting remote card  writing, over-the-air carding writing  and SIM card reuse, cumulatively  reducing the use of 200 million SIM  cards. Eco-friendly  SIM Cards As of the end of 2011, 1.09 billion mini-sized SIM cards were  issued accumulatively 6,000 tonnes of plastic waste were  avoided accumulatively 18,000 tonnes of production material  usage were reduced  accumulatively 65 tonnes of carbon emissions were  reduced accumulatively Decreased printing by 25%  through electronically issuing  SIM cards.  37 Facilitating Smart Transportation with location-based Services Promoting Environmental Applications With the rapid development of industrialization and urbanization in China,  energy conservation and emissions reduction has become a common  challenge faced by the society. In 2011, we actively innovated on and  promoted environmental applications, fully used location-based services and  the Internet of Things applications and provided ICT solutions for certain  relevant industries in terms of vehicle dispatching, logistics management and  pollution monitoring, producing good environmental benefits. Providing standardized  interface, value-added  services such as positioning  information and real-time  traffic information by using an  innovative and open system  based on cloud service. This  application has covered over  90% of all industries. Providing a platform for traffic  information dissemination and  channel of communications  with government traffic  control agencies; and currently  providing vehicle dispatching  systems in provinces such as  Liaoning, Jiangxi, Anhui and  Gansu. Collaborating with upstream  and downstream partners  such as auto plants to provide  remote vehicle information  services, such as navigation,  information, vehicle safety  inspection and information of  surrounding automobiles. Building a vehicle positioning  and dispatching platform by  using the Vehicle Information  Service to improve the  operational efficiency of  vehicles. Currently there are  9,000 corporate users with  205,000 end users. Offering real-time traffic  information via our 12585  hotline and Mobile Navigation  Service. Smart  Transportation In Shanxi, a citizen was experiencing the Wireless City traffic  monitoring application Smart Transportation and logistics In 2011, leveraging on our location-based services we played an active role in promoting the structural adjustment and  change of development mode of the transportation industry. Vehicle Information Service We developed the Vehicle Information Service to facilitate transportation, save energy and cost and improve vehicle  dispatching management. We provided our corporate customers with services such as vehicle location monitoring,  positioning and dispatching, helping them reduce operational and management cost through effective vehicle  management and optimized resource allocation. By the end of 2011, the Vehicle Information Service had provided  vehicles monitoring and dispatching services to 205,000 end users of our 9,000 corporate customers. In Guangxi, we installed Vehicle Information Service devices on all emergency response vehicles of the Nanning Power  Supply Bureau, providing functions including vehicle positioning, fuel consumption monitoring, location tracking and  route replay. With this service, users could find out the location of vehicles and dispatch them in real-time, and optimize  their resource allocation to reduce fuel usage. The Vehicle Information  Service helps our company  reduce cost and helps drivers  shorten their trips. With its  statistical function, I do not  need to check the mileage  or do meter readings of each  vehicle. Instead, the system  generates statistical data  automatically and saves a  great deal of efforts for me.  Mr. Zhou,  Dispatcher of guangxi  Nanning Power Supply  Bureaus vehicle fleet Promoting Environmental Applications SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES HIGHLIGHTS 2011  38 2011 Sustainability Report Environment Monitoring and Management In 2011, we actively developed environmental protection applications, established environment monitoring and  management system and provided effective ways for protecting water resources and ecological environment, as well as  improving environmental protection efficiency.  In Zhejiang, working together with the provincial Department of Environmental Protection and other departments,  we carried out a project to develop an automatic monitoring system to monitor the sources of drinking water in the  province. Upon completion, the system could monitor the water quality of centralized sources of drinking water at above  the county level within the province and send warnings automatically, ensuring the safety and quality of the centralized  sources of drinking water to a considerable extent. In Hebei, cooperating with the provincial Department of Environmental Protection, we developed a smartphone-based  platform for mobile environmental law enforcement with the functions such as real-time query, on-site law enforcement  assistance, verification of law enforcement and mobile office. Environmental law enforcement personnel can, through  their mobile phones, conduct real-time enquiry, calculation and examination of automatic monitoring condition,  operational data and construction projects of major polluters. They can also conduct on-site verification at power plants  and waste disposal sites. By the end of 2011, a total of 230 mobile law enforcement terminals had been put into use. Public Transportation Information Service With technologies such as mobile positioning, the public transportation information application enables people to check  the real-time information of the public transportation through their mobile phones and set alarm for its arrival, which  transforms the way people take public transportation from waiting passively to being informed in advance, thereby  facilitating travelling, saving waiting time and improving the usage and efficiency of the public transportation system. The  system is currently used by over 1.6 million times each month in Xiamen alone. Parking lot Availability Information Service The Parking Lot Availability Information Service helps users plan their routes and helps alleviate traffic congestions. In  Beijing, our customers can visit the Citizens Homepage through mobile phones to check the total number of parking  spaces and the number of parking lots available real-time of more than 200 parking areas. Mobile Navigation Our Mobile Navigation Service combines navigation services and location-based services. In addition to those basic  navigation functions, it offers more location-based services such as traffic information, questions and answers and tourist  information services to provide users with a faster, more accurate and comprehensive location-based services. In March  2011, Mobile Navigation was launched commercially across China and so far it has developed nearly 20 million users.  Furthermore, it is one of the navigation tools with the most client-end applications, totaling over 1,000. In Anhui, through combining multiple means such as on-site checking and network collection, 12580 services have been  continuously enriching information of merchants and bus stations, constructing map information database of every city  and providing guiding services for the public such as merchants positioning queries, surrounding information inquires,  information on bus transfers, routes and stations queries, as well as driving guidance. The query results can even be sent  to the users mobile phone in the form of MMS map. So far, this service has covered 8 cities with over 60,000 times of  guiding services per month on average. In Fujian, customers were able to trace  locations of their vehicles with the  Vehicles Guardian service  39 Target area Started  from Contribution  during 2011-2012 Target areas and programs Xizang Gaize county,  Ali prefecture 2002 42 million yuan 90% to be used in infrastructure  construction, education  and healthcare projects and  grassroots level programs and  the farming and pastoral areas Heilongjiang  Tangyuan county  and Huanan county  2002 10.4 million yuan livelihood improvement programs  and communication network  infrastructure construction Qinghai Maqin county in  Guoluo prefecture 2010 18.9 million yuan education, health-care and  infrastructure programs  Fostering a Harmonious Community Philanthropy is playing an important role in supporting and improving peoples  lives. In the next 5 years, China is faced with arduous tasks in improving living  standards, which provides significant opportunities as well as challenges to  philanthropy in China. Under this circumstance, China Mobile has further  improved the management of the China Mobile Charity Foundation,  accomplished the formulation of the Foundations Three-year Development  Plan (2011-2013) and focused our philanthropic activities on education for  disadvantaged groups, health-care assistance, environmental protection and  disaster relief. While striving to carry out charitable activities, we actively  encouraged our employees to do volunteering work and participate in  philanthropic activities to promote harmonious development of the society. In  2011, we received China Children Charity Award – Outstanding Contribution  Award and were awarded China Charity Award for the fourth time in a row. Development Aid and Poverty Alleviation We have long dedicated ourselves to providing development aid and poverty alleviation. In 2011, we set up a working  group for target areas to facilitate the standardization, systematic development, efficient coordination and smooth  implementation of our development aid and poverty alleviation work. In Ningxia, we had contributed over 3 million yuan accumulatively to support education and poverty alleviation during  the last 10 years. Over 5,400 local people in Yanchi county have benefited from the program. In 2011, we included  Linjiagou village in Xitan township of Xiji county in the program and contributed 400,000 yuan to support ecologically- friendly migration, drinking water, educational support, educational infrastructure and school heating programs,  benefiting over 1,800 local villagers and students. Fostering a Harmonious Community SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES HIGHLIGHTS 2011 In addition, we have made proactive efforts in building an extensive charity support platform based on our vast customer  base and extensive service networks. We are currently collaborating with 11 foundations, including China Womens  Development Foundation and China Children and Teenagers Fund, to provide their major fund-raising public events with  convenient SMS channels for small-amount donations. In 2011, a total of over 11 million yuan donations was collected. In Ningxia, we provided education assistance in Yanchi county  2011 Sustainability Report 40 Supporting Education Supporting education has always been a key charitable cause for China Mobile. In 2011, we made proactive efforts in  building educational infrastructure, training educators, providing financial aid to students in need and initiating student  employment and entrepreneurship programs. Developing Educational Infrastructure We kept helping improve the educational infrastructure in poverty areas in central and western China by building China  Mobile Libraries and multimedia classrooms. Since 2006, we have already built 1,510 China Mobile Libraries and 500  multimedia classrooms accumulatively. Training for Educators We actively carried out the China Mobile Training Program for Primary and Middle Schools Principals to improve the  capability of educators in central and western areas and help mitigate the disparity in educational resources. In 2011, we arranged the Shadow Training for more than 1,000 primary and middle schools principals from 12  western provinces. We also provided online training for 10,000 principals from 23 central and western provinces. Since  2006, we have already trained over 36,600 primary and middle schools principals from rural areas. Helping Students with Financial Hardship We committed ourselves to promoting equal education opportunities and helped students with financial hardship gain  educational opportunities and complete their studies through scholarships and work-study programs. In Shaanxi, we have carried out the Care 100 program for 6 consecutive years together with the Communist Youth  League Provincial Committee and the provincial Department of Education. We have donated a total of over 10 million  yuan, sponsored 3,016 university students, provided 9,000 university students with intern opportunities at our M-zone  stores and gave out 22 million yuan as scholarships and financial aids. In 2011, we donated 2.2 million yuan to sponsor  516 new university freshmen students with financial difficulties, with each student receiving over 4,000 yuan. In Liaoning, working together with the provincial government and the Communist of Youth League provincial Commit- tee, we continued our Care Education program: launched Hear the Heart program and helped 500 children left in  poverty realize their dreams; carried out Love Playground activity, donated sports equipment to 30 financially difficult  primary school and helped improve situation of serious shortage of sports equipment in rural schools; launched Entre- preneurial Lesson program, invited experienced entrepreneurs from well-known companies to provide entrepreneurial  lessons and assistance to students from over 50 universities in the province and provided 1,000 internship positions for  students; we also launched employee donation for poor students and financed 94 students from rural areas to complete  their study. Providing Employment and Entrepreneurship Support We actively provided university students with employment and entrepreneurial opportunities and helped them ease the  employment pressure. In late May 2011, we launched the second phase of the Mobile Market Million Youth Entrepreneurship Action (MM  Entrepreneurship Action) and forged a value chain of value discovering – value matching – value realization. By the  end of 2011, MM Entrepreneurship Action had cumulatively attracted 1.51 million young people to join, received a total  of 900,000 proposals, conducted more than 700 trainings and established over 70 campus-based development bases.  Many young participants have gained continuous support in developing their capabilities with the focused support of  this program. Shadow Training is also  called Experience Training  or Following Training.  Shadow Training pairs  the participants with their  trainers, experienced  principals and provides  the participants with the  opportunity to observe  how their trainer manages  the school and gain in- depth understanding of the  principles, ideas, systems and  management approaches of  their trainer and the school  in which they are trained in  reality. Since 2006, China Mobile has  cumulatively built 1,510 China Mobile Libraries built 500 multi-media classrooms trained 36,600 principals of primary  and middle schools in  rural areas We provide free online learning programs and optional courses to participants and they will be given the Mobile Internet Development  Engineer credential that is jointly issued by the MIIT and China Mobile and become a qualified Mobile Internet developer. With the help of experts from the developers community, participants can put their ideas into practice using our incubator and capability  market applications and test their work with our remote development environment. Participants can sign contract with us and become  MM developers. We host social events for developers and provide them with a platform to gain access to various resources, such as project opportunities  and overseas application stores. We provide a group of selected developers with funding support to start their own business, and forge the League of Talents to help  job-seeking developers gain job opportunities with major domestic and international companies. Cultivating stage growing stage Maturing stage Successful stage  41 Caring for Disadvantaged groups A fair and just development of society needs the joint efforts of individuals and organizations from the society. We  adhere to promoting and achieving inclusive growth by applying our own resources and technologies to help those  disadvantaged groups and share with them the development results. China Mobile Heart Caring Campaign On 30 August 2011, China Mobile Charity Foundation, Neimenggu Autonomous Region Civil Affairs  Department, Teda International Cardiovascular Hospital and Neimenggu Charity Federation jointly launched the  China Mobile Heart Caring Campaign – a plan to provide assistance to children with congenital heart disease  that live in poverty. China Mobile Charity Foundation contributed 11 million yuan to fully finance the surgery  and purchase two vehicles equipped with mobile medical system to conduct screening of congenital heart  disease. The campaign aims to help 350 to 400 children with congenital heart conditions within 2 years. By the  end of 2011, our mobile diagnosis vehicles had provided screening to 2,991 children and a total of 202 children  received surgeries funded by us. This campaign has created a new model for public charity by integrating mobile  diagnosis with mobile medical, integrating subsidized surgery with subsidized rehabilitation and integrating aid  program with volunteering service. Little Ding is a 5 year-old child from Bayan town near Hohhot in Neimenggu. She was diagnosed with a  congenital heart problem when she was 3 years old. Dings parents were farmers and their income merely  cover their living expenses and it would take them at least another 5 to 6 years to have enough savings for the  surgery. On 30 August 2011, our mobile diagnose vehicle gave Ding a thorough examination near her home  and she was diagnosed with a congenital ventricular septal defect. On 17 September, Little Ding received a  successful surgery and returned home on 28 September. Mobile medical vehicles are equipped  with advanced inspection equipment  for  congenital heart disease Little Ding recovered after the surgery Our volunteer bonded with a child from the caring campaign We continued to work on the Warm China 12.1 Charity Fund – China Mobile Care Action program that focuses on  children orphaned by AIDS. Since the program was launched in 2008, we have sponsored a total of 15,749 children who  were orphaned and affected by AIDS.  At the same time, we also actively carried out activities caring for the disabled, the elderly, as well as children of migrant  workers who were left behind in rural areas. In Anhui, we contributed 500,000 yuan and launched the Community Care program in collaboration with Anhui  Social Work Association and other non-governmental organizations. This program provided home-visits, caring, health  caring, nursing and other services to the elderly with special needs including single, living alone or in extreme poverty,  being seriously sick or handicapped. We developed a number of information platforms such as the platforms for caring  information, services information and assistance information to take care and help elderly people. As of the end of 2011,  the program had covered 30 community service units in 7 local communities and served nearly 4,000 elderly people with  special needs. In Ningxia, cooperating with the local Communist Youth League and Young Pioneers organizations and the local De- partment of Sports, we launched the Communist Youth League Voluntary Service Action: Care for Children of Migrant  Workers and set up Support Groups for Children of Migrant Workers to help these children. The groups encouraged  our employees to participate by donating money and goods. Our employees used their spare time to tutor, accompany  and educate these children and made donations to help them grow up healthily. By 2011, Warm China 12.1 –  China Mobile Caring Action  program has cumulatively  supported 15,749 children orphaned by   AIDS or living in  extreme poverty SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES HIGHLIGHTS 2011 Fostering a Harmonious Community  2011 Sustainability Report 42 Encouraging Volunteerism We actively encourage our employees and the public to take part in volunteering activities, help disadvantaged groups  and make joint efforts to promote the development of charitable causes. As of the end of 2011, cumulatively, the num- ber of our employee volunteers reached over 90,000, providing over 10 million hours of voluntary services. In Anhui, we continued to carry out the China Mobile Blue Dream Educational Charity Plan – Care for Children of  Migrant Workers Left in Rural Areas. We built 20 primary schools for children left behind in rural areas and organized  more than 700 volunteers to carry out various activities to support education and to help the schools and students han- dle difficulties. In Henan, we launched the CSR Assembly Initiative and developed a Love Relay platform to encourage volunteers  to actively participate in charitable programs, such as pair-up educational assistance, small-amount donation for the  Love Relay Fund, providing Love Relay volunteering services, acting as proxy parents, sending charitable SMS  messages. Over 1,600 of our employees and volunteers actively participated in our initiative. In Guangxi, in collaboration with Liuzhou Charity Society and other organizations, we launched the Pass on Love with  Mobile program in September 2010, focusing on supporting elderly citizens and children of migrant workers. As of  the end of 2011, 300 volunteers had received training on volunteering and over 600 volunteers had participated in the  events we organized of which 12 were large-scale events and 20 were small-scale ones. The program directly helped  over 500 people and over 1,000 people benefited from the program indirectly.  In order to help enhance the organizational efficiency and the social impact of our philanthropic activities, we made ef- forts to build volunteer management information platforms. In Shandong, we initiated the establishment of the Love Rizhao urban volunteer club in Rizhao city. The club engaged  itself with a variety of philanthropic activities, such as community service, environmental protection, health care, educa- tion support, poverty alleviation, public safety, tourist service, disaster relief and published magazines, newspaper and  manuals to promote volunteerism. To date, over 8,000 volunteers have registered at the club with a variety of profes- sions such as students, teachers, government employees, entrepreneurs, company employees and retirees. As of 31 December 2011,  cumulatively over 90,000 China Mobile employee  volunteers over 10 million hours of  volunteering   work provided In Shaanxi, we organized blood drive among our employees In Guangxi, employee volunteers helped with spreading rice seedlings during the drought In Hebei, our volunteers engaged in  community services Supporting Volunteerism with Information Platform In Jiangsu, in order to address the challenges volunteering groups face, such as loose management,  inefficient coordination and information asymmetry, we conducted thorough analysis of the information  needs of the volunteer groups, their individual members and those they intend to help and developed a  Volunteering Service Platform. The platform facilitates information flow and enables quick responses once  there is a call for help in the community.   Allowing volunteer groups to publish information on large-scale public events and regular activities,  facilitate the communication between volunteers and those who are helped, showcase outstanding  volunteering activities through multiple channel including the Internet, Fetion, SMS, MMS and voice.  Providing volunteers with convenient self-service functions, such as registering, modifying information,  looking-up activity information and total service hours either by login online or via mobile phone  connection.  Improving the efficiency of volunteer groups by allowing them to centralize management and efficiently  match demand and supply side information of volunteering services.  43 Supporting Employee Career Development We attach great importance to maintaining harmonious labor relations,  protecting employees rights, encouraging employees development and  promoting the mutual development of our employees and the Company. In 2011, China Mobile  had delivered  975,000  person-times of   trainings in total 57.4  hours of training per   person on average Employee Caring and Development As the most active factor of productivity, employees development plays a  vital role in the future development of a company. We positively innovate on  human resource management, protect employee rights, care for their physical  and mental health and provide an enabling platform on which they can display  their talents. In Shanxi, we organized trainings to help  grassroots level managers grow In Ningxia, new employees were showing  their talent during the Young Eagle  training program Employee Caring and Development SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES HIGHLIGHTS 2011 Protecting Employees rights We strictly abide by the Labor Contract Law, adhere to the principles of gender equality and equal pay for equal work  and strive to build a harmonious corporate culture. We have built a fair, just, efficient and flexible labor mechanism to  improve the efficiency of human resource management and enhance the sustainability of our business. In 2011, we formulated the China Mobile Labor Management Measures (Provisional), which covers employee categories,  quantity management and cost management. This policy represents our transition from identity-based management  to position-based management. We continued to promote the integration of management in the aspects of position,  performance, remuneration and capability management of our employees, so as to construct a fair, just, harmonious and  efficient employment environment. In Beijing, we updated our employee communication platform Team Blog by introducing the social network service  (SNS) concept into the Companys community network – the first Happy Work Network in China. The network  provides a new channel for our employees to communicate among themselves and with the management chain of  commands, as well as raise complaints or give feedback. Innovating on Employee Development Mechanism In 2011, we improved a series of employee management and development systems, such as formulating the  Management Measures for Exchange Program for Headquarters Employees that encourages employees at our  headquarters to enrich their management experiences at grassroots positions. We took several measures to achieve  better integration of employee training and career development, including initiating the development of a position  qualification system, organizing employee trainings according to position qualification requirements, exploring ways to  establish an employee position certification system and kicking-off position certification work for certain job categories. We modified the evaluation on innovation and scoring system for technical talents. We will establish a certification and  development mechanism for technical experts to promote the integration of the contribution of technical innovation and  employees performance and career development path, so as to motivate employees to innovate proactively and create  an encouraging atmosphere for technical innovation. In Gansu, we signed cooperating agreements with Lanzhou Jiaotong University and Nanjing University of Posts and  Telecommunications respectively to jointly launch a continuing education program for masters of engineering in the field  of electronic and communication engineering. A total of 78 employees were selected from Gansu Province to participate  in the continuing education program to improve their learning and working capabilities. In Shandong, we implemented the New Employee Integrating Plan and adopted different approaches at different  stages, such as employee need analysis, new employee orientation, one-to-one mentoring and special cares, to help  our employees grow and shorten the process before they are fully integrated with the Company. In Chongqing, we built Palm School based on mobile terminals, provided 12 columns with over 300 lessons.  Employees could study on their own any content whenever and wherever according to their own demand and interest,  which enhanced their ability of self-study.  2011 Sustainability Report 44 EAP Service Pyramid In Shaanxi, based on the concept of Deepening Employee Care and the topics of our EAP program, Spirit  and Care, we constructed a pyramid-shaped EAP service system. The system consists of:  Basic Service Tier: At this tier, we provide regular services that serve all employees. With support from  the experts in psychology, the programs serve our employees continuously. We also use our website to  promote mental health concepts in a regular and multi-dimensional way;   Elite Training Tier: We establish an internal service support network as the core force to ensure the  implementation of the project. 30 EAP experts and 303 Happy Dandelion members have worked with  external experts to ensure the implementation of the program in a professional way; and  Specialized Service Tier: This is a specialized service focusing on providing specialized service to core  groups of people. Specialized services for the management have made them the core of EAP projects,  while the support and service personnel are also the major targets focused by the psychological help and  care. In Shandong, we held employee parent-child contest In Beijing, we organized exercising  activities for our employees In Xinjiang, we gave pregnant employees radiation-shielding aprons Caring for Employees Healthy, happy and efficient employees represent our core competence in our pursuit of sustainable development.  Helping our employees to achieve work-life balance is an important aspect in fulfilling our responsibility towards  employees. Caring for Employees Health We pay close attention to employees health and provide them with physical examination on a regular basis and  comprehensively promote the Employee Assistance Programs (EAP) service. In 2011, EAP service has covered all of the 31  provincial subsidiaries of the Group. In Guangdong, we held the Care 100 expert consultation service event, inviting specialized doctors of Guangzhou  Healthcare Institute to provide in-depth consultation to our female employees and give them health care suggestions  that were customized to their individual needs. The event was very popular and 30 people registered on the first day. The  expert consultation event was held once a month by inviting experts to our company, enabling our employees to enjoy  the professional and convenient service of medical consultation. Employee Caring We care for our employees in every detail by putting ourselves into the shoes of our employees to provide caring services  and formulate a harmonious and friendly working atmosphere. In Sichuan, we provided pregnant employees with special seats in all dining rooms. In Hunan, we allocated a dedicated office for pregnant employees, named Office of Happy Mother-to-Bes, to help  them minimize the exposure to decoration pollution during their pregnancy period.  In Shandong, we arranged pregnant employees and nursing mothers to a special Careful Mother Audit Team and  gave them less heavy work, such as binding forms, checking for mistakes and providing supporting services to front desk  employees. In Beijing, we held the Family Open Day and Dragon Festival Gala event and built an interactive communication  platform with programs such as Heart-to-Heart Connect and Chitchats between the Company and our employees  and their family members, contributing to fostering the sense of belonging of our employees.  45 leading Industry growth While the development of ICT has brought broad applications and  development opportunities, it has also brought great challenges to traditional  telecommunications industries. We actively promote the innovative  development of TD industry, build a responsible supply chain and improve the  green standard of the industry. Promoting TD Development In order to support the rapid development of Chinas economy and in  anticipation of the future needs, we fully leverage on our role in leading  industry innovation and make great efforts to promote the maturity of TD  In Anhui, customers were attracted   by the rich variety of TD services Leading Industry Growth SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES HIGHLIGHTS 2011 Expanding TD Network Coverage In 2011, we focused on continuously improving TD network quality and coverage and further promoted the Double  100% (100% TD deployment among indoor distributive systems with demand for data business, and 100% coverage of  TD network over GSM network at outdoor data business hot spots areas). We centralized our resources to further improve  the in-depth coverage of TD network in main urban areas. We have basically achieved continuous coverage in prefecture- level cities, county-level cities and the main areas of counties in China, with an 80% coverage rate of urban areas. Encouraging TD-lTE Innovation In order to ensure the sustainable development of TD technology with independent intellectual property rights of China,  we focus on the overall strategy of promoting development of TD-LTE and LTE FDD technologies at the same time as well  as their development on the global stage and promote the extensive adoption of TD-LTE technology globally.  Industrialization: We organized and conducted scaled-up TD-LTE tests. We serve the development of our industry with  these tests and the question banks and industry suggestions help the products to develop and the industry become  mature, thereby creating an industrial environment that involves both domestic and overseas companies and with  preliminary end-to-end commercial capacity. The first phase test result shows that the TD-LTE end-to-end industry  covering system, chipsets and terminals is basically mature and available for use. It nearly reaches the initial level of LTE  FDD being deployed for commercial use, which marks an important milestone that symbolizes the maturing of the TD- LTE industry;  Technological Innovation: While we are continuously improving new technologies and standards to maintain our  competitive advantage in TD-LTE technology, we also focused on demand and developed a number of technological  application plans that meet the technological and industrial requirements of its operation; and  Globalization: We initiated technological and industrial cooperation with international operators and manufacturing  companies. We promoted the establishment of Global TD-LTE Initiative (GTI), which had attracted 40 global  operators as members. This collaboration effort establishes an international platform to accelerate the development of  the industry and promote the commercial deployment of TD-LTE. In 2011, we completed the Phase I task of large-scale construction of TD-LTE trial network in Shanghai, Nanjing,  Hangzhou, Xiamen, Guangzhou and Shenzhen, which contributed to the smooth implementation of the national major  TD-LTE experiment of the New Generation of Broadband Wireless Mobile Communications Network in China. Aiming  at developing TD-LTE and LTE FDD at the same time, we have taken a number of proactive measures to prepare for the  commercialization of TD-LTE in terms of equipment performance, network technology and terminals. In 2011, the first TD-LTE/TD-SCDMA/GSM 4G multi-mode and dual SIM-card smart phone developed by a coalition of  China Mobile and our industry partners was unveiled at the 2011 Universiade in Shenzhen. The phone demonstrated  a variety of business applications such as voice call, high-speed mobile Internet and on-line video, signaling the gradual  maturing of the TD-LTE industry. By now, the commercial use of TD-LTE has kicked-off all over the world. 5 major operators have launched commercial  services and over 10 other operators have specified their commercial plans. 2011 has become the first year of TD-LTEs  global commercialization. technology and its evolved technology. We strive to make TD-LTE become a mainstream broadband technology globally,  so as to effectively lead the strong development of the TD industry chain.  2011 Sustainability Report 46 In Xinjiang, we strictly abide by environmental regulations regarding base stations in natural reserves Building a Responsible Supply Chain China Mobile understands that its impact on the industry also means the great responsibility it has. As such, we have  implemented rigorous management on our suppliers and conducted comprehensive evaluation on our suppliers overall  capability to help them improve their quality management, gradually leading and building a responsible supply chain. Enhancing Supply Chain Management Guided by the principles of Centralization, Standardization and Informationalization, we strive to develop a low-cost  and highly efficient supply chain system that meets the requirements of lowest total cost, most efficient, good quality  and compliance. Adhering to China Mobile Communications Corporation Regulation on Supervision of Bidding and Procurement Project  (Provisional), we specify ways for suppliers to whistle-blow in all our centralized bidding and procurement.  In order to build a responsible supply chain, in 2011, we required suppliers to provide verified certification documents  such as ISO 14000 and SA 18000 in the qualification review of the bidding process. The certification documents will be  audited for their authenticity.  In Guangdong, we signed the Initiative of Building an Honest and Outstanding Mobile Information Supply Chain  together with around 100 of our partners with the aim of building a mobile information supply chain that features quality  first and win-win cooperation. By signing the initiative, we commit ourselves to working together with our partners to  improve our management and realize a win-win situation and our mutual growth. Our cooperation focuses on 3 areas:  the development of the next generation information technology, the development of information applications based on  the Wireless City platform and the implementation of social responsibilities. Strengthening SP Management Adhering to the service concept of Customers are our priority, quality service is our principle, we strictly followed the  Monitoring and Management Mechanisms of Mobile Internet Malwares, which is the first regulation on Mobile Internet  security management issued by the MIIT. We focused on improving our management system and enhancing our support  mechanism to strengthen service providers (SP) management and protect the interests of customers. Regarding our management system, we issued an updated Management Measures on Monternet Credits, which  intensified the punishment for SP violations, in order to ensure the healthy development of Monternet businesses. We  use a credit mechanism to manage our SPs, in which we specified penalties for different kind of violations of customers  interests. We strictly implement a system keeping track of SPs with bad credit history, and terminate cooperation with  SPs with severe violations within 2 years. In Shaanxi, we launched an industry self-regulation initiative of committing to honest services and harmonious  consumption and circulated it among over 120 local SPs. We urged all SPs to commit to abiding by states laws and  regulations, actively working with government regulators and firmly maintaining a green environment for information  services.  47 Promoting green Development of the Industry We not only attach great importance to energy conservation and emissions reduction in our own operations, but also  actively explore Green Cooperation with our industrial chain partners, jointly promoting and practicing Green  Standards of the telecommunications industry. Innovating on green Cooperation We actively cooperated with different parties to promote various green solutions and business collaborations:  Promoting Green Packaging: We worked together with 8 equipment manufacturers to participate in the pilot  program of Reducing Wood Usage in Mechanical and Electrical Product Packaging launched by the MIIT in order to  promote Green Packaging for telecommunications equipment. We jointly committed to reducing our wood usage  by at least 37,000 cubic meters annually in 2011 and 2012. In 2011, we have reached a 69% application rate of  green packaging and realized a timber saving of 44,000 cubic meters, exceeding our reduction goal. We also actively  explored ways to cooperate with third-party pallet rental suppliers to shorten the recycle cycle of green packaging. We  had already conducted pilot work in Guangdong in cooperation with Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.;  Innovation Day open house event: We worked together with France Telecom and hosted the first Innovation Day  open house event in Chinas telecommunications industry. The event targeted developers of mobile phone applications  and provided them with the opportunities to see the most advanced trends in innovation and stimulate their creativity  with a number of innovative ways, including on-site showcase of new products and new concepts and the opportunity  to exchange ideas with other developers; and  Engaging in cooperation: As a founding-member of Green Touch, we deepened our exchange with internationally  renowned academic institutions, such as the AT&T Bell Laboratories, equipment manufacturers and other operators to  explore ways to tap energy saving potentials. We also worked with academic institutions such as the Renmin University  of China and the National University of Singapore to promote the academic research regarding the coordinated  development of energy saving and low carbon economy. leading green Standards We have been focusing on developing communications equipment energy conservation grading standards since 2008.  Currently, we have already completed standards that cover 7 areas, including wireless network, core network, service  platform, IP carrier network, optical transport network, IT support network and UPS equipment. From 2009 to 2011, the energy conservation grading standards started being fully applied to our centralized  procurement of communications equipment that covered over 600 products, so as to encourage equipment  manufacturers to further increase equipment efficiency with greater input in research and development. We have  achieved the goal of reducing average energy consumption and installation area by over 20% every 2 years. In 2011, together with 7 other companies, we founded the first Alliance of Green, Security and Integrity for mobile  applications. We also initiated 8 standards on being green, security and integrity for mobile software, including standard  on healthiness and compliance, standard on low-carbon environment protection, standard on copyright protection,  standard on security, standard on quality, standard on pricing, standard on the integrity of trade and standard on  customer services. In 2011, with Green Packaging  69% application rate was  reached 44,000 cubic meters of timber was saved Leading Industry Growth SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES HIGHLIGHTS 2011 From 2009 to 2011, we  made full use of the energy  conservation grading standards,  over 600 products were covered  2011 Sustainability Report 48 In Hong Kong, China Mobile International Company Limited was founded We actively implement the Go Global strategy and establish professional international companies  to strengthen the operational management of our overseas operations. Meanwhile, we actively  participate in local community construction, adhere to social responsibility and make great efforts to  realize sustainable development. Expanding Overseas Business In December 2010, we incorporated China Mobile International Company Limited in Hong  Kong. International Company was in charge of managing our overseas operations, including the  organization and marketing of our business overseas, procurement and management of international  Pushing Forward to go global transmission resources, allocation and management of overseas business units, carrying and transmitting of international traffic and cooperating and managing  international roaming services. After International Company was founded, we took a number of measures to lower international transmission cost, such as  significantly cutting roaming charges in 38 countries and regions including Singapore, Germany and Canada. We also introduced daily data packages for the  seven most popular overseas destinations including Hong Kong, Macao, Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand. With all these efforts, we aim to  provide services that make you feel at home anywhere in the world. In Pakistan, CMPak actively devotes itself to serving local eco- nomic development and improving the living standards of local  people. Our contribution was recognized with the Presidents  Award given by the Pakistani government.   Ensuring compliance: We developed the Internal Audit Policy  to strengthen internal control, improved corporate governance  system and continued to improve operational transparency.  Enhancing network construction: By the end of 2011, our  network coverage reached 53% with the highest increase of  customer counts among local operators.  Developing customized services: We developed a variety  of customized services to serve local cultural and religious  environment, such as mobile news, regional  package and  special packages for pilgrimage and Ramadan. We also  developed remote charging of airtime to bring convenience to  customers in less developed areas. Fulfilling local Responsibilities During the process of Go Global, we attach great importance to fulfilling our responsibilities. While expanding our business, we have actively integrated into  local community and made great efforts to fulfill our responsibilities. In Hong Kong, China Mobile Hong Kong Company Limited (Hong Kong Company) is committed to providing considerate products and participating in social  public activities and has been named Caring Company by the Hong Kong Council of Social Service for 9 consecutive years.  Optimized customer services: In order to increase transparency, we adjusted the format of bills We strengthened the protection of customers account  information safety management. We offered fee discount to elderly customers and also provided free SMS service within network for hearing and speaking  impaired persons, students and foreign household helpers. We set up a hotline that provides service in Bahasa Indonesia at service halls. We also offered  discounted International Direct Dial (IDD) services to minority ethic customers and facilitated their communication with home countries.  Green operation: We have been actively promoting green operation. We strictly managed electromagnetic radiation and conducted over 1,380 base inspections  and upgraded about 200 high electricity-consuming facilities in 2011. We commissioned a qualified recycling company to dispose the electronic wastes.  Employee localization: We actively promoted localization of its employees with 99.8% of our employees being local people. We valued communication among  our employees and encouraged them to maintain a healthy life-work balance, for which we had organized events to facilitate communications, such as Happy  Time gatherings, cake making and bowling games.  Commitment to charity: We actively participated in charitable activities, including the Blood Donation Day together with Hong Kong Red Cross Society, the  Food Bank donation event together with the St. James Settlement and providing gifts to children at Hong Kong Society for the Protection of Children.   49 SuSTAINABIlITy PERFORMANCE By reference to the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1), we set out our key sustainability performance as follows: Economy  Indirect Economic Impact Narrowing Digital Divide We actively participated in the Village Connected Project to provide  communication and information services for rural areas and helped to  narrow digital divide. Market Performance We abide by labor laws and regulations, and the salary level of our  employees is higher than the local minimum wage. Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Operating revenue (billion yuan) 480.79 510.45* 557.80 Corporate income tax paid (billion yuan) 38.76 39.07* 41.63 Promoting Inclusive Society On the one hand, we strive for promoting telecommunications services  popularization and providing impartial and affordable information  services for the whole society; on the other hand, we cooperate with  relevant departments, develop applications for facilitating society  management, help reduce cost of social services through ICT solutions  and improve society operation efficiency. Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Number of Campus Information Service users (million) 32.16 44.41 52.32 Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Cumulative number of natural villages  covered via Village Connected Project 34,122 43,577* 53,842* Cumulative number of administrative  villages with broadband connection – – 4,031 Number of sales channels in rural areas  (10,000) 56.23 58.00 69.00 Number of Rural Information Service users  (10,000) 4,521 5,687 3,130** Environment  Energy and Resources Energy Consumption We pay a great deal of attention to climate change, make great  efforts to reduce our energy consumption and continually improve  energy efficiency. In 2011, energy consumption per unit of  telecommunications traffic decreased by 11% when compared to last  year. Network Infrastructure Joint Construction and Sharing  Rates (2011) Indicators Joint Construction Rate (%) Sharing Rate (%) Towers 63 79 Pole lines 38 91 Base stations 51 80 Transmission lines 40 92 Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Total electricity consumption (GWhs) 11,140 12,440 13,470 Natural gas consumption  (million cubic meters) 8.8  6.0 6.9 LPG consumption (100 tonnes) 10.5 7.5 6.7 Coal gas consumption (million cubic meters) 0.8 1.0 2.1 Coal consumption (10,000 tonnes) 5.3 5.3 2.9 Gasoline consumption (million liters) 155.6 149.1 156.5 Diesel fuel consumption (million liters) 23.5 26.1 29.0 using Alternative Energy Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Alternative Energy Base Stations-Total 6,372 7,795 8,970 Solar Energy 5,581 6,279 7,057 Wind Energy 72 308 435 Solar and Wind 689 1,069 1,316 Fuel Cells 30 139 162 Reducing Resources usage As of the end of 2011, we have cumulatively issued a total of 1.09 billion  mini-sized SIM cards, preventing 6,000 tonnes white pollution, saving  18,000 tonnes production materials and reducing 65 tonnes carbon  emissions, which is equivalent to reducing resources consumption and  environment pollution caused by 1.3 billion plastic bags. Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Number of mini-sized SIM cards used (10,000 pieces) 3,319 52,000 53,600 Number of SIM cards reused (10,000 pieces) 44 67 72 *Note:    Data of 2010 and 2011 are updated according to statistics of the  MIIT. **Note:  The number of Rural Information Service users in 2011 was adjusted to refer to users  subscribing to the country-level Rural Information Service. Economic Values Created and Shared We create and share economic values with stakeholders through daily  business operations. Informationalization of National Economy We continuously innovate on personal and industry information applications, and  help improve the level of informationalization of the entire society through ICT  solutions. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE *Note: The data for 2009-2011 are from audited financial report, and historical data of 2010  has been revised.  2011 Sustainability Report 50 Protecting Employee Rights We strictly comply with labor laws and regulations, sign labor contract  with each employee and pay social insurance for employees in full in  accordance with laws. Education and Training Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Number of persons trained (10,000 person-times) 92.1 89.8 97.5 Number of senior management trained (person-times) 330 239 421 Number of mid-level management trained (person-times) 8,421 8,195 8,901 Number of ordinary employees trained (10,000 person-times) 91.2 88.9 96.6 Percentage of employees attending  diploma courses (%) 5.38 5.16 5.32 Average training time per employee (hours) 56.7 59.0 57.4 Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Total number of employees (persons) 230,902 210,068 218,253 Promoting Employment and  Entrepreneurship Our development contributed to the generation of over 2.5 million  job opportunities. In August 2010, we launched Mobile Market  Million Youth Entrepreneurship Project. By the end of 2011, the  project involved 1.51 million young developers, held more than 700  training events for developer and established over 70 campus-based  development bases. labor Practice and     Decent Work Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Percentage of businesses conducted  through e-channels (%) 48 54* 76 green Operations Indicators 2011 Number of person-times visiting the Integrated  Information Network (10,000 person-times) 2.2 Average number of calls made daily (10,000 calls) 5.2 Average duration of calls per day (10,000 minutes) 43.4 Average number of instant messages sent per day  (10,000 messages) 7.2 Indicators 2011 Total amount of reclaimed water used (tonnes) 1,834  Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Discarded lead acid batteries (million Ahs) 132.66 125.85 97.80 Lead acid batteries recycled through professional channels (million Ahs) 98.74 104.44 95.88 Lead acid batteries reused (million Ahs) 41.54 26.65 30.58 Cumulative number of mobile phones and  accessories recycled (million) 5.31 6.74 8.51 Waste Indicators 2011 Number of base stations in ecological reserve zones 7,781 Biodiversity We actively protect ecological environment and strictly comply with  the relevant rules when constructing base stations in ecological reserve  zones to protect the biodiversity. Reducing Carbon Emissions Indicators 2009 2010 2011 CO2e (million tonnes) 9.46* 11.12* 11.97* Products and Services We proactively innovate on applications of environmental protection.  By the end of 2011, our Vehicle Information Service has provided  vehicles/personnel monitoring and dispatching services to 205,000 end  users from 9,000 corporate customers. Water We actively use reclaimed water in our operations based on  the circumstances, improve our employees awareness of water  conservation and save water. green Office We continuously improve the level of informationalization of our  office. Through the use of Integrated Information Network, we reduce  physical office resources and business travel expenses. *Note: According to the data for the conversion of energy published by the Chinese  government, the conversion factor for carbon dioxide is as follows: electricity, 0.849;  gasoline, 2.3; diesel fuel, 2.63; natural gas, 0.559; LPG, 1.49; coal, 2.66; and coal gas, 9.5. Transportation We encourage using video conferences to reduce business trips. In  2011, video conferences conducted through Integrated Information  Network amounted to 205,000 times. *Note: Due to changes in indicators, adjustments have been made to historical data.  51 Consumers Interests Protection Customer Satisfaction Network Quality and Reliability (2011) Products Providing Diversified Services Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Number of customers (million) 546.46 609.78 680.71 Number of countries and regions  covered by GSM roaming service 237 237 237 Number of countries and regions  covered by GPRS roaming service 182 186 187 Improving Network Quality Human Rights We support and respect internationally recognized human rights. Society Community We urge and initiate employees to participate in volunteer services.  The number of employee-volunteer has accumulated to over 90,000,  and the hours of volunteer services exceeded 10 million cumulatively. Indicators 2009 2010  2011 Ethnic minorities as a percentage of total employees (%) 6.10 6.01 6.56 Ethnic Proportion Emergency Support Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Total number of emergency support (times) 5,004 5,413 4,671 Major political or economic events  support (times) 4,496 4,744 4,028 Significant natural disasters  support (times) 253 437 223 Large-scale accidents or  catastrophic events support (times) 62 75 224 Public health incidents  support (times) 120 91 48 Public safety incidents  support (times) 73 66 148 Emergency support vehicles  deployed (times) 13,812 21,324 9,636 Emergency support systems  installed (times) 59,073 124,268 43,527 Persons involved in emergency support (person-times) 204,754 354,822 320,866 Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Cumulative number of children orphaned by AIDS  or living in extreme poverty sponsored (persons) 9,791 12,229 15,749 Number of children in poverty who suffered from  congenital heart disease assisted (persons) – – 202 Cumulative number of China Mobile Libraries built 1,175 1,360 1,510 Cumulative number of multimedia classrooms built 175 350 500 Cumulative number of principals of rural primary  and middle schools trained (persons) 14,600 25,600 36,600 Social Welfare Diversity and Equal Opportunities Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Percentage of female employees (%) 42.24 40.36 40.53 Percentage of female employees at the  senior management level* (%) 13.88 14.53 17.43 Employee gender Composition *Note: Senior management refers to anyone at vice president level or above at provincial  subsidiaries and anyone at general manager level or above at headquarters. *Note:  The indicator has changed, and historical data have been revised. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Indicators gSM Network 3g Network Successful connection rate (%) 99.26 98.99 Call drop rate (%) 0.32 0.35 Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Complaint rate per million customers (cases) 47.0* 52.1* 40.2* Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Number of reported spam  messages handled (10,000 times) 1,500 684 562 We strive to improve the customers services and protect the  customers interests. The complaint rate per million customers of 2011  remains the lowest in the communications industry.  2011 Sustainability Report 52 lOOKINg FORWARD Sustainability Management Construction of management  system  To enhance the construction of indicator management and capability enhancement system.  To improve management process of sustainability issues, continue to carry out international   benchmarking with global peers and improve management. Stakeholder communication and  engagement  To increase regular discussions with our stakeholders and focus on key issues.  To explore multi-party cooperation with regard to the key topics of ICT service in the society. Sustainability Practices Adherence to Integrity  and Compliance  To enhance the construction of risk management and internal control system.  To increase promotion and education on compliance, strictly against corruption and  commercial bribery. Innovative and Highly- efficient Operation  To further promote the development of new technologies, new models and new areas,  improve operation mode and enhance operational efficiency. Constructing Excellent  Network  To continuously improve daily management of emergency communications, amend color  coding plan and special plan and comprehensively improve the emergency plan system.  To launch nationwide EMF inspection, promote the establishment of EMF international  standards for China Mobile TD base stations and speed up the setting up of EMF test  standards and inspections for TD-LTE base stations. Striving for Customer  Confidence  To continuously promote transparency in consumption, protect customers interests, innovate  on management of customer complaints and improve the capability of handling complaints.  To ensure the security of customer information, fully promote the implementation of Treasure  Model in the whole network and further increase customers confidence.  To intensify the control of obscene and spam messages and formulate a healthy and green  network environment. Narrowing the Digital  Divide  To increase the telephone connection rate of natural villages, increase mobile  telecommunications network services and coverage quality in the rural areas and support the  development of modernization of farmers, villages and agriculture with more agriculture- related information products and services.  To further provide mobile business and caring services to the disabled, the elderly and the  minority groups and allow our special information applications to benefit a wider group of  people. Enabling a Better  life with Innovative  Information Solutions  To explore the technology application of the Internet of Things, promote the construction  of Wireless City, provide more extensive informationalization solutions for key industries  and contribute more to improve social operation efficiency, ensure community security and  promote convenience of the publics living. Managing  Environmental Impacts  To continue Green Action Plan and improve environment management system.  To effectively manage environmental impacts, build green network, enhance electronic  business coverage rate and advocate green office.  To increase resource usage efficiency, continue SIM cards energy saving and emission reduction  and recycle electronic wastes. Promoting  Environmental Applications  To promote energy saving and emission reduction through informationalization, develop  smart transportation and logistics through innovation, monitor and detect environment  pollution through informationalization. Fostering a  Harmonious  Community  To strongly support development aid and poverty alleviation, further strengthen the role of  China Mobile Charity Foundation, carry out more practical volunteer activities in the areas of  supporting education development and caring for disadvantaged groups. Employee Caring and  Development  To care for the employees, protect employees interests, complete employee growth  mechanism, provide diversified training for employees and continue to enhance their  personal capabilities.  To care for employees practical needs, help employees realize work-life balance through  detailed and thoughtful measures. leading Industry growth  To continuously promote TD development, accelerate maturing of TD-LTE industry and  explore new space for industry development.  To promote industrial multi-cooperation, promote green industry standards and lead the  communications industry to a healthy growth. Pushing Forward to  go global  To improve international business development, commit to local operations and become a  exemplary demonstration in Go Global.  53 INDEXES gRI Index (g3.1) No. Relevance Page Strategy and Analysis 1.1 High 1 1.2 High 7 Organizational Profile 2.1 High 4-5, 55 2.2 High 5 2.3 High – 2.4 High 55, Back cover 2.5 High 5 2.6 High 5, 55 2.7 High 5 2.8 High 5, 49-51 2.9 High 55 2.10 High 5, 9, 39 Report Parameters 3.1 High 55 3.2 High 55 3.3 High 55 3.4 High 56, Back cover 3.5 High 55 3.6 High 55 3.7 High 55 3.8 High 55 3.9 High 55 3.10 High 49-51 3.11 Medium 55 3.12 High 53-55 3.13 Medium – Corporate governance 4.1 High 13 4.2 High 13 4.3 High 13 4.4 High 11 4.5 High – 4.6 High 13 4.7 High – 4.8 High 1, 6-7 4.9 High 13 4.10 High – 4.11 High 13-14 4.12 High Back cover 4.13 High 5, 45, 55 4.14 High 10-11 4.15 High 7, 10-11 4.16 High 10-11 4.17 High 10-11 Economic Responsibility Indicators EC1 High 5, 49 EC2 High 33-38 EC3 High 43-44 EC4 Not Applicable – EC5 High 43 EC6 High 7, 11, 45-48 EC7 Medium 43, 48 EC8 High 22-32, 39 EC9 High 15, 22-24, 49 Social Responsibility Indicators LA1 High 5, 50 LA2 High – LA3 High 43-44 LA4 Medium – LA5 High – No. Relevance Page LA6 High – LA7 High – LA8 High 44 LA9 High – LA10 High 43, 50 LA11 High 43, 50 LA12 High 43, 50 LA13 High 50-51 LA14 High 43 LA15 High – HR1 Not Applicable – HR2 Not Applicable – HR3 Not Applicable – HR4 High 43, 48 HR5 Not Applicable – HR6 High 48 HR7 High 43 HR8 Not Applicable – HR9 High 48 HR10 High – HR 11 High – SO1 High 10, 16, 39-42 SO2 High 14 SO3 High 14 SO4 High 14 SO5 High 22-24 SO6 Not Applicable – SO7 High – SO8 High – SO9 High 16, 22-24, 49, 51 SO10 High 16, 22-24, 49, 51 PR1 High 16 PR2 Low 16 PR3 Medium 19 PR4 High – PR5 High 18-21, 51 PR6 High 18-21 PR7 High – PR8 High 20 PR9 High – Environmental Responsibility Indicators EN1 Low 33-36, 49 EN2 Medium 33-36, 49-50 EN3 High 49 EN4 High 49 EN5 High 33-37, 47, 49 EN6 Low 37-38, 50 EN7 Low 33-36, 49 EN8 Medium – EN9 Low – EN10 Low 50 EN11 Low – EN12 High 46, 50 EN13 Low – EN14 Low – EN15 Low – EN16 High 50 EN17 High 50 EN18 High 33-38 EN19 Low – EN20 Low – EN21 Low – No. Relevance Page EN22 High 36, 50 EN23 Low – EN24 Low – EN25 Low – EN26 High 33-38 EN27 Low 36, 47, 50 EN28 High – EN29 Low 50 EN30 High 33-36 gRI Telecom Index No. Relevance Page Internal Operations IO1 High 22 IO2 High 22-24 IO3 High – IO4 High 16 IO5 High 16 IO6 Not Applicable – IO7 High 16, 34 IO8 High 33, 49 Providing Access PA1 High 22-24 PA2 High 22-24 PA3 High 16, 51 PA4 High 5, 22, 51 PA5 High 22-24, 49 PA6 High 17, 51 PA7 High 10, 18-24 PA8 High 16 PA9 High 16 PA10 High 19 PA11 High 18-19, 37-38 Technology Applications TA1 High 37-38 TA2 High 34-38 TA3 High 25-26,35-36 TA4 High 25-26,35-36 TA5 High 12 INDEXES  2011 Sustainability Report 54 The uN global Compacts 10 Principles Index ISO 26000 Index  Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of  internationally proclaimed human rights (see pages 22- 24, 43-44, 51); and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights  abuses (see pages 22-24, 43-44, 46). labor Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association  and the effective recognition of the right to collective  bargaining (see pages 43-44); Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory  labor (see pages 43-44); Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor (see pages 51 ); and   Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of  employment and occupation (see pages 43-44, 48, 51). Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to  environmental challenges (see pages 33-38, 47-50); Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental  responsibility (see pages 33-38, 47-50); and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally  friendly technologies (see pages 33-38, 47-50). Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms,  including extortion and bribery (see pages 13-14, 46). Corporate Responsibility Core Issues  Indicators Page Organization governance 13-14, 46 Human rights 1. Due diligence 46 2. Human rights risk situations – 3. Avoidance of complicity 20, 46 4. Resolving grievances 18, 43, 46 5. Discrimination and vulnerable groups 22-24, 39-42 6. Civil and political rights 43, 48 7. Economic, social and cultural rights 22-24, 43, 48 8. Fundamental principles and rights at work 43-44 Labor practices 1. Employment and employment relationships 43, 48 2. Conditions of work and social protection 44 3. Social dialogue 43 4. Health and safety at work 44 5. Human development and training in the workplace 43 Environment 1. Prevention of pollution 33-34, 38 2. Sustainable resource use 36 3. Climate change mitigation and adaptation 33-38 4. Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural homes 33-38 Fair operating practices 1. Anti-corruption 14, 46 2. Responsible political involvement – 3. Fair competition 13, 48 4. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 36, 46-47 5. Respect for property rights 46-47 Consumer issues 1. Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 19 2. Protecting consumers health and safety 16-17 3. Sustainable consumption 18-21, 25-31 4. Consumer service, support and compliant and dispute resolution 18 5. Consumer data protection and privacy 20 6. Access to essential services 18-19, 22-24 7. Education and awareness 21, 31 Community involvement and development 1. Community involvement 10-11, 39-42 2. Education and culture 28, 31, 40 3. Employment creation and skills development 40-41, 45 4. Technology development and access 15 5. Wealth and income creation 4-5, 15, 49 6. Health 26, 41 7. Social investment 39-41  55 ABOuT THIS REPORT This is China Mobile Communications Corporations sixth Corporate Social Responsibility Report, and it covers our activities between 1 January 2011  and 31 December 2011. This report has been published in both English and Chinese versions. We have compiled this report according to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and ISO 26000 Index of the International Standard  Organization, and by reference to the Global Reporting Initiatives Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) and the GRI Telecommunications Sector  Supplement. We have also sought to align this report with the unique attributes of our business and industry. This report also made reference to the  Guidelines for China Enterprises Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting (CASS-CSR 2.0). Content Selection We followed the GRI principles of materiality, stakeholder  inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness and took the  following steps to define the contents of this report:  Analysis of our corporate sustainable development strategy;  International benchmarking and internal assessment for sustainable  development;  The identification of sustainable development issues for the  telecommunications industry in terms of their relevance and  significance;  Interviews with our key stakeholders; and  Analysis of the continuity and comparability of this report against  reports of peer companies and our previous reports. In particular, the 2011 report covers the following within the GRI  framework:  Our sustainability strategy and management in 2011 (pages 6-11);   Our sustainability practices highlights in 2011 (pages 12-48); and  Our sustainability performance in 2011 (pages 49-51). Report Scope Unless otherwise stated, this Report covers operations of China Mobile  Communications Corporation and our operating subsidiaries from  across all 31 provinces, autonomous regions, and directly-administered  municipalities in Mainland China, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region  (SAR) and Pakistan, and other affiliated enterprises including China Tietong  Telecommunications Corporation, China Mobile Group Terminal Company  Limited and China Mobile International Company Limited. Data Collection Our data and case studies in the 2011 report are collected primarily  through the following:  China Mobiles internal statistics reports;  China Mobile e-platform for CSR management: we established a  CSR management indicators system in 2008, and officially launched  the e-platform for CSR management in March 2009 for collecting  relevant data and case studies on a quarterly basis; and  In 2011 we held an annual CSR practice competition: starting from  2008, we have been inviting external experts to act as judges with  our internal experts to comment on CSR practices each year. Currency Unless otherwise specified, all monetary figures shown in this report  are expressed in Renminbi (yuan). unaudited Data Unless otherwise specified, the data shown in this report is unaudited.  ABOUT THIS REPORT Company Name China Mobile Communications Corporation Company Founded On April 20, 2000 Assets In excess of RMB 1,000 billion Headquarters Address 29 Jinrong Avenue, Xicheng District, Beijing, 100033, China Ownership Structure State-Owned Enterprise Method of Going Public China Mobile Communications Corporation holds 100% of the equity of China Mobile (HK) Group  Limited. China Mobile Limited, of which China Mobile (HK) Group Limited is the major shareholder,  has set up wholly-owned subsidiaries in 31 provinces, autonomous regions and directly administered  municipalities in Mainland China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, and is listed on  the Hong Kong and New York stock exchanges. China Mobile Basic Company Information  2011 Sustainability Report 56 FEEDBACK Dear Reader: Thank you for taking the time to read our 2011 Sustainability Report. There are inevitably some flaws and omissions in this report, and we very much  welcome your comments and suggestions. Thank you, China Mobile 2011 Sustainability Report Team April 2012   Name   Contact Information   Telephone   Email   Company   Report Feedback*   Readability   Objectivity   Logic and Structure   Completeness   Beginning   Adherence to Integrity and Compliance   Innovative and Highly-efficient Operation   Constructing Excellent Network   Striving for Customer Confidence   Narrowing the Digital Divide   Enabling a Better Life with Innovative  Information Solutions   Managing Environmental Impacts   Promoting Environmental Applications   Fostering a Harmonious Community   Employee Caring and Development   Leading Industry Growth   Pushing Forward to Go Global   Ending   Overall evaluation * Please rate each item from 1 to 5, with 1 being the lowest score and 5 being the highest. You are welcome to send this form to China Mobile 2011 Sustainability Report Team via email at CR@chinamobile.com, or via fax at  +86-10-66006167.  We value your feedback and suggestions and will ensure that your information will not be accessed by any third party.