Thinking Green,  Doing Green. 2011  SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   1    02 About MRCB  04 Our Approach to Reporting  06 Organisational Chart  08 Corporate Structure  10 A Message from Chief Executive Of cer  16 Strategy and Analysis  20 Corporate Governance  25 Awards and Recognitions  26 Environment  40 Community  50 Workplace  62 Marketplace  69 GRI Index  83 Assurance CONTENTS  2   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  ABOUT US About MRCB  Malaysian Resources Corporation Berhad (MRCB) is a leading  urban property, infrastructure and environmental regeneration  specialist in Malaysia. Established in 1968, it became a public  listed company in 1969 and was listed on Bursa Malaysia  (Malaysias Stock Exchange) in 1971. The Group is a multi-disciplinary specialist offering integrated  solutions in urban planning; engineering; urban development;  environmental engineering and regeneration; and energy  infrastructure development. The Groups four core divisions  are Property; Engineering and Construction; Infrastructure,  Concession and Environment; and Building Services Division. Property Division - MRCB Land – Transforming communities MRCB Land, MRCBs property division is the leader in  integrated developments as epitomized by the success of  its iconic Kuala Lumpur Sentral development. The division  is a catalyst for the transformation of environments and the  creation of new communities with its innovative business  strategy. From residential to commercial developments, from retail  complexes to transportation hubs, MRCB Lands award- winning properties set new benchmarks in sustainable  development. The division is one of the  rst developers to  pro-actively adopt sustainable development certi cations for  all new developments within Kuala Lumpur Sentral. Green  certi cations adopted include the US Building Councils  Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED);  Singapore-based Building and Construction Authority (BCA)  Green Mark and Malaysias Green Building Index (GBI)  certi cations. Infrastructure, Concession & Environment Division -  Connecting People to places MRCB Infrastructure, Concession and Environment is a leader  in integrated infrastructure and environmental rehabilitation  developments. The Group has been a catalyst for connected  urban centres and sustainable development in Malaysia with  successes including the modern highway construction of the  Duta-Klang Expressway (DUTA) and the recently completed  Eastern Dispersal Links (EDL) located in Johor, a southern  state in Peninsular Malaysia. The successes of its coastline and river rehabilitation have  effectively transformed beaches, coastlines and riverines in  Malaysia which included a section of Pulau Tioman coastline,  one of the worlds best known islands. We are currently  working on two river rehabilitation projects, namely Perai  River in Penang, Pahang River in Pahang State. Engineering and Construction Division - Building for  a sustainable tomorrow A fully- edged engineering and construction  rm with a  national and international reputation for excellence and  commitment to project and service distinction, its success  is epitomized by its construction of the iconic Kuala Lumpur  Sentral CBD Development. Its successes and capabilities  range from the design and construction of Malaysias longest  high-voltage transmission networks, the 273km Sabah- East West Interconnection Grid and the National Grid for  Peninsular Malaysia, to being a turnkey contractor and urban  developer of township, commercial, residential and integrated  transportation hub developments. Building Services Division - Harmonising the  living environment  MRCB Building Services, an accredited MS ISO 9001: 2000  Quality Management System organisation which commits  to best working practices, is quickly becoming a leader in  building and security services. Its successes in maintaining  and managing building facilities for commercial, government  and high-rise of ce buildings include the landmark and iconic  Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur as well as several commercial  buildings in Kuala Lumpur and Penang.  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   3   MRCB has infused its brand of innovativeness and  uniqueness into each project. The encouraging response  from purchasers has spurred MRCB Land to further  leverage on its expertise and at the same time, build with the environment in mind.  4   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  This is the  fth Sustainability Report produced by MRCB.  This Report covers our responsibilities to our stakeholders  and the contributions we have made towards sustainable  development. About this Report This Sustainability Report is consistent with our Annual Report  and previous Sustainability Reports. This Report continues  to feature Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) and  provides information on the nature of our business in each area  of the GRI Guidelines. Our strategies, achievements and future  plans for sustainability management are all aligned with these  guidelines especially in the areas of sustainable environmental  management, community, social contributions, ethics and  corporate culture. Where group-wide information is not available, we have provided  performance data and case studies which are representative of  our general approach. In this Report, we have also tracked data  and statistics of our performance to date and evaluated our  progress in achieving targets. Our transparency efforts are not limited to this Report. Other  material issues such as Corporate Governance and detailed data  of our internal operations and business activities are reported in  our Annual Report and are not repeated here. Scope of Report Reporting period:  January 1st to December 31st 2011 Reporting Cycle:  Annually Coverage:      The MRCB Sustainability Report covers our  entire organisation and includes quantitative  and qualitative data for 2011. Where group- wide information is not available, selected  site data has been used. Some indicators are  partial and only relate to certain divisions or  activities as indicated in the text. Reference and Guidelines  Principal Guidelines   GRI-G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Framework OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING A section of the wall plants at Platinum Sentral The atrium at Platinum Sentral  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   5    Additional Guidelines    Bursa Malaysias Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)  Framework    Silver Book: The Putrajaya Committee GLC Transformation  Manual    ACCA Malaysia Sustainable Reporting Guidelines for  Malaysian Companies   ISO 26000: Guidance on Social Responsibility Reliability of information disclosed The Reports reliability has been examined by SIRIM QAS  International Sdn Bhd. Our assurance approach is completely  transparent, bias-free and independent. Their conclusions are  presented in an Assurance Statement which can be found at the  end of this Report. There is no con ict of interest between the  report preparation process and veri cation process. Feedback This Report is available to all stakeholders in hard copy on  request and can be downloaded from MRCBs corporate website.  For further information and comments please contact: Mohaini Mohd Yusof General Manager Head of Corporate Communications Malaysian Resources Corporation Berhad Level 22, 1 Sentral, Jalan Travers, Kuala Lumpur Sentral PO BOX 12640  50470 Kuala Lumpur Malaysia Tel: +603 2786 8080 Fax: +603 2780 5883 www.mrcb.com.my The view of the garden at Platinum Sentral  6   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  Chief Financial Officer Finance Treasury & Corporate Finance Procurement/ Admin & IT Divisional Head Of Finance Property Human Resource Business Development & Government Relations Corporate Communications Total Quality Management/Customer Relationship Management Legal Safety, Health & Environment Senior Vice President BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT COMMITTEE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER SECRETARIAL ORGANISATION CHART  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   7   Chief Operating Of cer (Construction & Infrastructure) Infrastructure, Concession & Environment Engineering & Construction Marketing Retail Building Services Chief Operating  Of cer (Property)  8   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  CORPORATE STRUCTURE Property  Kuala Lumpur Sentral Sdn Bhd (64.38%)  Unity Portfolio Onesentral Park Sdn Bhd (100%)  Sdn Bhd (100%) Prema Bonanza Sdn Bhd (51%) MRCB Utama Sdn Bhd (100%) Malaysian Resources  Development Sdn Bhd (100%)   Seri Iskandar Development    Corporation Sdn Bhd (70%) MRCB Sentral Properties Sdn Bhd (100%) Sooka Sentral Sdn Bhd (100%) Excellent Bonanza Sdn Bhd (60%) Cosy Bonanza Sdn Bhd (65.70%) Nu Sentral Sdn Bhd (51%) 348 Sentral Sdn Bhd (100%) (formerly known as/ dahulu dikenali sebagai GSB Sentral Sdn Bhd) Bitar Enterprise Sdn Bhd (100%)   MRCB Land (Australia)    Pty Ltd (70%) 59 Inc Sdn Bhd (100%) Engineering & Construction MRCB Engineering Sdn Bhd (100%) Milmix Sdn Bhd (100%) Transmission Technology Sdn Bhd (100%) Region Resources Sdn Bhd (100%)  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   9   Infrastructure, Concession & Environment MRCB Prasarana Sdn Bhd (100%)    MRCB Lingkaran Selatan  Sdn Bhd (100%)      MRCB Southern Link     Berhad (100%) MRCB Environmental Services Sdn Bhd (100%)    MRCB Environment   Sdn Bhd (55%) Building Services Semasa Sentral Sdn Bhd (100%) Semasa Services Sdn Bhd (100%) Semasa Parking Sdn Bhd (100%) MRCB Technologies Sdn Bhd (100%) Semasa Sentral (Penang) Sdn Bhd (100%)  10   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  A MESSAGE FROM  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER MRCBs progress in its overall business  performance was matched by positive  developments  in  its  sustainability  agenda. In 2011, our businesses continued  to develop roadmaps and action plans  in an effort to achieve our strategic  sustainability  targets. These  plans  consider the technology, investment and  operational decisions we will need to  meet our longer-term targets. With plans  in place, we are prepared to achieve our  goals. This is one way to ensure that  sustainability is a shared value throughout  the Company. I am happy to report that we made good  progress on our sustainability agenda in  2011, with continuous support from our  stakeholders. Our strategy is unchanged.  Our  core  focus  is  on  delivering  shareholder  value  from  significant  structural opportunities and in building  our capability in support services. We  are now well into the sustainable and  disciplined growth.  Corporate Responsibility underpins the  responsible and sustainable delivery  of our key business drivers; as such it is  an integral part of achieving our overall  strategy. The Board believes that the  integration of Corporate Responsibility  across the Group, and the inclusion of  broader social and environmental issues  into our decision making, will help us  achieve our business goals. At the same  time, it acts as a building block for growth  in shareholder value while also bene tting  the communities in which we operate. As  such, the Board remains fully committed  to this important direction. Workplace As an employer who is committed to  career development, we spent more than  RM800 on each employee for various  training and development programmes.  The total internal and external training  programmes conducted during the  year have exceeded 200 sessions.  Our Career Ladder Programme rewards  and recognises our employees for  their achievements. Looking at our  nature of operations, safety can never  be compromised. We strive to prevent  occupational injuries while ensuring  a comfortable and safe workplace. In  order to be quali ed, all site workers are  required to attend two levels of mandatory  safety training; a Construction Industry  Development Boards (CIDB) Green Card  course conducted by CIDB personnel and  the MRCB safety Induction programme.  MRCB is committed to ensuring a safe  and healthy working environment for  all its employees and others involved in  its operations. The Company considers  statutory requirements; relevant national  and international standards and code of  practices. We continue  to develop strategic  action plans - this is  our way to ensure  that sustainability  is a shared value  throughout  the Company.  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   11   The MRCB contigent at the Federal Day parade Marketplace Our supply chain processes with suppliers and  customers is smooth and provides high quality  deliverables. Project delivery is managed,  monitored and reported using a variety of  management tools. Our myCRM software is  developed in-house by the Group to monitor  every stage of our product lifecycle. In 2011,  our customer satisfaction results increased  signi cantly in comparison with the previous  year. In addition, winning the Conglomerate  Awards at the BrandLaureate Awards this year  is testament to our commitment to delivering  quality products and services. These awards  were conceptualised by the Asia Paci c Brands  Foundation of which Y.Bhg Tun Dr Mahathir  Mohamad was a patron.  Community As a responsible urban developer, we are also  committed to contributing monetary or in kind  Corporate Social Responsibility assistance and  affordable housing to the needy within our  areas of operations.  We are happy to play our role in developing  affordable  homes  in  support  of  the  Governments effort to ensure all Malaysians  are able to purchase their own homes with our  contribution to the PR1MA Scheme.  The Brick elds blind community is located  very close to our iconic Kuala Lumpur Sentral  Central Business District (CBD) development.  A stakeholder communications session was  held with the Malaysian Association for the  Blind (MAB) in March 2011 to discuss ways to  help the blind navigate their way around during  the upgrading works in Brick elds.  Through our contributions to Promoting  Intelligence, Nurturing Talent and Advocating  Responsibility (PINTAR) programme, we  continue to support educational necessities for  children and families in need. We hope to ease  the economic challenges facing these families  by improving educational opportunities and  an enhanced learning experience to their  children. We also spent on building a futsal  court for residents at Kampung Bakar Batu and  the pupils of SK Tebrau Bakar Batu, an MRCB   12   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  PINTAR school. With the opening of this futsal  court, MRCBs PINTAR students are encouraged  to not only excel in academic performance  but also be actively involved in co-curriculum  activities. I am pleased to see an improvement  in the examination results of these children in  all schools in 2011. We are also actively contributing to other  philanthropic, cultural and heritage activities.  These initiatives can be found in the Community  section of this Report. Our commitment to  developing the community was recognised  through earning a double Distinguished  Honouree medal at the 2011 International  Business Awards in two categories on 13 October 2011, at an award ceremony at Abu  Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. The winning  entries are the MRCBs PINTAR programme,  which was accorded a Distinguished Honouree in  the Corporate Social Responsibility Programme  of the Year in Asia (Asia, Australia and New  Zealand) while the Green Building Initiative was  also nominated as a Distinguished Honouree in  the Environmental Responsibility Programme  of the Year (Asia, Australia and New Zealand).  Honourees were selected from more than  1,700 entries received from organisations and  individuals in more than 40 countries where  honourees were determined through two  rounds of judging by professionals worldwide.  Environment As a construction company, MRCB has an  obligation to help create awareness on global  warming. We have decided to adopt a more pro- active approach by incorporating sustainable  elements in our property development. Since  2009, MRCB has incorporated green building  requirements into our Kuala Lumpur Sentral  development, utilising international green  building certi cation standards, notably, the US- based Leadership in Energy and Environmental  Design (LEED), Singapores BCA Green Mark  and Malaysias Green Building Index (GBI)  for all its new development in Kuala Lumpur  Sentral (Nu Sentral, Kuala Lumpur Sentral Park  and 348 Sentral). Moreover, we also encourage  our clients and partners in going green with  Datuk Mohamed Razeek Hussain, the CEO of MRCB receiving The Brandlaureate Awards 2010-2011 A MESSAGE FROM  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   13   The atrium at Platinum Sentral  14   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  their developments, and these have resulted in several of them  adopting green certi cations. These include Platinum Sentral  (BCA Green Mark Platinum) CIMB Of ce Tower (BCA Green Mark  Gold); Perdana Sentral Of ce Tower (Leed Silver); and St. Regis  Hotel and Residences (GBI Gold). In addition to our internal environmental initiatives to minimise  environmental impacts such as noise, waste, water and  emissions, we also contributed to the greening of Greater Kuala  Lumpur development plan by contributing RM1 million to the  creation of Taman Botani Perdana. The 122-year-old  Taman  Botani Perdana was upgraded and rebranded to establish a  premier botanical garden in the heart of the city. Our Commitment to Sustainable Reporting Our commitment to transparent disclosure was once again  recognised when we were named as one of the 27  nalists at  the StarBiz-ICR Malaysian Awards, held at Intercontinental  Hotel, Kuala Lumpur on 29 March 2011. This time, MRCB was  amongst the runner-ups, for the market category, af rming  MRCBs commitment to operating in an economically, socially  and environmentally sustainable manner while balancing  the interest of diverse stakeholders. Our achievement was  recognised by the StarBiz-ICR Committee for demonstrating  outstanding CR practices that go beyond community and  philanthropic activities.  We were also named as one of the 20 shortlisted companies  recognised for excellent corporate sustainability performance  by the Association of Chartered Certi ed Accountants (ACCA) at the prize giving ceremony of Malaysia Sustainability  Reporting Awards (MaSRA) 2011, held on 4 October 2011 at  Shangri-La Hotel, Kuala Lumpur. Our Sustainability Report  was selected from a total of 43 reports submitted, with the  judging criteria based on completeness, credibility and  communications. We continue to improve our disclosure and the dissemination  of transparent, credible and accurate information to our  stakeholders. This transparency helps us quantify and ensure  our sustainability efforts are real. In realising this commitment,  this year we have engaged SIRIM QAS International Sdn Bhd,  an internationally-recognised body in sustainability veri cation  and assurance to ensure the credibility of our disclosure. We  believe that this transparent and bias-free engagement will add  value to this Report.  Continuing our Support of the 10 UNGC principles MRCB continues to be represented as a committee member of  the Malaysian Chapter of the United Nations Global Compact  (UNGC) in keeping with our aim of adopting international  standards for our CSR programmes and vision. Pn. Mohaini Mohd Yusof, General Manager of Corporate Communications of MRCB receiving the StarBiz-ICR  nalist plaque A MESSAGE FROM  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   15   Our goal is to work continuously towards incorporating all 10  UNGC principles on human rights, labour rights, environmental  sustainability and anti-corruption into our operations and  strategies, and to report on their implementation. We support  and pledge to continue to observe these 10 universal principles  on human rights, labour rights, environmental sustainability  and anti-corruption. Acknowledgement It is gratifying to witness the Groups numerous achievements in  this  nancial year. The accomplishments are only made possible  by the dedication and hard work of our employees. On behalf of  the Board of Directors, I would like to convey our most sincere  thanks and appreciation to every member of the MRCB family.  We look forward to many more faithful and mutually rewarding  years of service from all. To our customers and shareholders,  your continued loyalty and con dence have made this Group  what it is today. Last but not least, I wish to extend a personal  thank you to all stakeholders for the great journey in 2011. I  am con dent that with your continued support and devotion, MRCBs achievements in the future will continue to shine  positively. MOHAMED RAZEEK HUSSAIN MARICAR Chief Executive Of cer Pn. Mohaini Mohd Yusof, General Manager of Corporate Communications of MRCB receiving the  ACCA MaSRA  nalist plaque Our commitment to  credible sustainable reporting has been af rmed through recognition from various organisations - and we  will continue to improve  disclosure to our stakeholders.   16   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  Stakeholder Mapping We de ne our stakeholders as those who have a direct, indirect or potential impact on the Company. We also consider those groups who are affected directly or indirectly as a result of our operations. Our stakeholder mapping exercise identi es these people,  organisations or entities in order for us to use the correct engagement approach. Each stakeholder group is managed by a relevant division whose duty is to regularly engage, respond to queries, address concerns and formulate strategies to better serve their  expectations. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Shareholders  & Investors The Public Employees Customers Government / Regulatory Authorities Analyst / Media Value Chain  Partners Industry Peers  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   17   identifying issues of concern focus on material areas assess issues  identi ed Stakeholder Group Method of Engagement Customers   Customer Satisfaction  Survey  Customer Complaints Tools Shareholders & Investors   Results announcement  meetings   Annual General Meeting  (AGM)  Regular Communication  Investor Road Shows  Reverse Road Shows Analyst / Media  Periodic Communication   Media interviews, press  release and website postings  Of cial launches and events  Open dialogue Industry Peers  Conference and meetings  Industry workshops  Networking events Value Chain Partners   Contract bidding and  procurement management  Training and communication  Site visits The Public  Community Engagement  Philanthropic activities  Open dialogue Employees   Employee representatives  and committee meetings  Employee Grievance System  Employee training  Quarterly newsletters  Intranet  Management meetings   Other events: Annual dinner,  functions and informal  gatherings Government / Regulatory  Authorities  Regular communication  Reports and compliance A list of the main engagement methods used by MRCB to  engage with each stakeholder group is summarised below.  These methods outline the core channels but our engagement  is not limited to these. At MRCB, we use materiality analysis to identify social and  environmental challenges, and opportunities that are important  to our stakeholders. We de ne material issues as those which  are considered to be a priority for our stakeholders and have a  potential impact on our business. These issues are integrated  into our business strategies. A combination of external stakeholder engagement and internal  strategic alignment ensures that this process is transparent and  credible. We focus on the long-term value drivers of our business  and stakeholders at large.   18   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  Issues raised by our stakeholders have been categorised into the main four sustainability pillars of MRCB: Environment, Community,  Workplace and Marketplace. The table below summarises the most relevant issues and our commitment to addressing each issue. Material issues which are identi ed as having a signi cant current and potential impact on MRCB, which are also signi cant concern  to our stakeholders, are mapped below. The materiality level de nes the amount of disclosure in this Report. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Pillar Issues Raised MRCBs Response Environment   Environmental impact from the ongoing  construction around Kuala Lumpur  Sentral   Regular monitoring of all environmental indicators  including noise, emissions and waste Community   Impact on the community as a result of  our upgrading work in Brick elds   MRCB as a responsible corporate citizen   Dialogue sessions with the Malaysian Association for the  Blind (MAB) to discuss ways to help the blind navigate  their way around the upgrading work in Brick elds   Continuous contributions to various community  programmes including PINTAR, charitable donations and  cultural activities Workplace  Safe workplace    Career development and opportunities   Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for site workers   Safety brie ngs for all workers before work and clear  signs   Ongoing internal and external training programmes  Rewarding employees performance  Marketplace   Availability and easy access to current  information on MRCBs properties and  future developments   Channel available for suppliers and  customers to communicate with the  Company   Regular updates on MRCBs operations through the  corporate website, brochures and engagement sessions  Customer satisfaction surveys   Regular engagement with suppliers on procurement  guidelines and procedures Low materiality High materiality Material issues   Gender diversity  in the workplace  due to the nature  of our operations  Biodiversity   Socio-economic  development   Best practices in  the workplace   Provision of  information to  stakeholders   Environmental impact  of operations   Safety and health at  work   Sustainable supply  chain processes   Business growth in  the industry  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   19   Risk   Beautifying of  Brick elds which caused  inconvenience to the blind   Environmental impact  caused from active  construction works  especially around  Kuala Lumpur  Sentral areas   Regular maintenance  of our property sites to  maintain quality    High-risk work due to the  nature of our industry  especially for contractors  and site workers Opportunities   Building of easy-access  for the blind making  Brick elds a disabled- friendly area   Sourcing of  environmentally-friendly  materials to minimise the  negative impact on the  environment   Signi cant increase in  customers satisfaction  survey for MRCB Land and  MRCB Properties   A Safety and Health  Committee established to  enforce safety practices  throughout the Company How We Turn Risks to Opportunities Little India development Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD  20   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance The Board of Directors of MRCB and its Management remain  committed to developing and implementing good Corporate  Governance practices throughout the Group. MRCB Group  regularly reviews its governance framework and practices  to ensure it remains relevant and effective in meeting the  challenges of its dynamic business environment. The Board of Directors, to the best of its knowledge, con rms  that the Group has applied the principles set out in the Malaysian  Code on Corporate Governance (Revised 2007) and the Main  Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities  Berhad (MMLR). MRCB Board Structure The MRCB Board comprises eight members,  ve of whom are  Independent Directors, two Non-Independent Non-Executive  Directors and one Non-Independent Executive Director. The  higher proportion of Independent Directors demonstrates  MRCBs commitment to upholding the principles of objectivity  and integrity in applying the principles of Corporate Governance.  The Nomination Committee of the Board regularly reviews  the mix of skills, knowledge and experience of its members.  The Board believes that the present Board composition helps  it discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively and  competently. Board Independence and Effectiveness The Board of Directors has a collective responsibility for the  management and oversight of the Group. The Executive Director  is responsible for the day-to-day business operations of the  Group while the Non-Executive Directors apply independent  scrutiny and judgement to management decision making and  provide objective challenges to management. This ensures  that the objectives of the Group are achieved in a robust and  responsible manner. The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer (CEO)  are held by separate individuals, with clear division of  responsibilities and authorities. While the Chairman provides  independent oversight over the operations of the Group, the  CEO is responsible for the smooth and effective running of  the Group. The CEO designs the overall business direction of  the Group; reports and communicates key strategic matters  and proposals to the Board; and implements decisions made  by the Board. The Chairman also presides over meetings of  the Board to ensure proposals and information provided by  the Management are properly discussed. In the absence of the  Chairman, the most Senior Independent Director, Dato Ahmad  Ibnihajar, chairs the Board meetings. MRCB AGM held at Hotel Istana, Kuala Lumpur  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   21   Committee of The Board  (EXCO) The EXCO comprises four members: a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director as the  Chairman, the CEO and two additional Independent Directors. The principle responsibilities  of the EXCO are: I.  To guide the Management in the implementation of the GLC Transformation Initiatives; II.   To review and recommend the annual business plan and budget of the Group to the  Board for approval; III.   To consider and review signi cant and/or major issues relating to the business  direction of the Group; and IV.  To deliberate on all major business transactions and issues relating to the Group that  require the EXCOs or Boards approval in-line with the approved Limits of Authority. Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee consists of four Independent Directors. The principle responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are: I.   To identify and recommend new nominees to the Board and Board Committees of the  MRCB Group of Companies; II.   To assist the Board, Board Committees and Directors in assessing their overall  effectiveness on an on-going basis; and III.   To assist the Board in periodically reviewing its required mix of skills and experience  and other qualities that Non-Executive Directors should bring to the Board. Remuneration committee The Remuneration Committee consists of four Independent Directors. The principle responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are: I.   To determine and recommend to the Board, the framework or broad policy for the  remuneration packages of the Chairman of the Board, the CEO and other senior  management personnel it is designated to consider; II.   To establish a formal and transparent procedure for developing a policy on the total  individual remuneration packages of the Executive Director, CEO and other designated  senior management personnel including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentives and  share options; III.   To design the remuneration package for Executive Directors, CEO and other  designated senior management personnel with the aim of attracting and retaining  high-calibre senior management personnel who will deliver success for shareholders  and high standards of service for customers, while having due regard to the business  environment in which the Company operates. Once formulated, the remuneration  package is recommended to the Board for approval; IV.  To review and recommend to the board, improvements (if any) on the CEOs and  designated senior management personnels remuneration policy and packages, and  any other issues relating to the bene ts of those designated senior management  personnel on an annual basis; V.   To review any major changes in employee bene t structures throughout the Company,  and where appropriate, recommend to the Board for adoption; and VI.  To review and recommend to the Board for adoption, the framework for the  Companys annual incentive scheme which includes merit increment, merit bonus and  incentives.  22   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit committee The Audit Committee consists of four Independent Directors. The principle responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: I.   To consider the appointment of the external auditor, the audit fee and any issue of  resignation or dismissal; II.   To discuss with the external auditor before the audit commences, the nature and  scope of the audit, and ensure co-ordination where more than one audit  rm is  involved; III.   To review the assistance given by the employees of the Company to the external  auditor; IV.  To discuss with the external auditor, his audit report and his evaluation of the system  of internal controls; V.   To review the quarterly and year-end  nancial statements of the Company prior to the  approval by the Board of Directors, focusing particularly on:   any changes in accounting policies and practices;   signi cant adjustments arising from the audit;   the going concern assumption; and   compliance with accounting standards and other legal requirements; VI.  To discuss problems and reservations arising from the interim and  nal audits, and  any matter the auditor may wish to discuss (in the absence of Management where  necessary); VII. To review the external auditors management letter and Managements response; VIII. To do the following in relation to the Internal Audit function:      review, on an ongoing basis, the adequacy of the scope and resources of the  Internal Audit function and that it has the necessary authority to carry out its work;      review the Internal Audit programme, processes and the results of the internal  audit programme and investigations undertaken. Where necessary, the Committee  will ensure that appropriate action is taken on the reports and recommendations of  the Internal Audit function, and that all the above are not subject to Managements  approval or clearance;      review any appraisal or assessment of the performance of members of the Internal  Audit function;      determine and recommend to the Board the remit of the Internal Audit function,  including the remuneration of the Head of Corporate Governance;      monitor closely signi cant disagreement(s) between Internal Audit and  Management, whether resolved or not; IX.  To ensure that all serious allegations involving issues such as fraud, misconduct and  criminal breach of trust are brought to the Committees attention. An investigation  must obtain the clearance of the Committee Chairman before it can proceed and the  Committee is empowered to review the major  ndings of such internal investigations  as well as Managements response; X.   To consider any related party transactions and con ict of interest situation that may  arise within the Company including any transaction, procedure or conduct that raises  questions on the Managements integrity; XI.  To obtain satisfactory response from the Management on the Internal Audit reports  and reports issued by external auditors; XII.  To submit a summary report to the Board after each Committee meeting to advise  on issues discussed as well as an annual report to the Board highlighting material  concerns discovered by Internal Audit during the year; XIII.  To oversee the Risk Management function of the Group, and report to the Board  signi cant changes in the business and the external environment which affect key  risks;  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   23   Board Committees The Board has established  ve committees, each with speci c  authorities and responsibilities, to assist the Board in discharging  its duties and responsibilities effectively. The skills and expertise  of each Director is drawn in these committees, where detailed  reviews and deliberations of strategic issues are conducted.  Nevertheless, the Board retains the ultimate responsibility for  all decisions made. Prevention of Fraud The Board has also developed the Prevention of Fraud Manual  which guides the Management and employees on maintaining  the highest standards of conduct and integrity in all dealings.  It also details the Managements responsibility to establish  the proper control processes to prevent and detect fraud. It  de nes what constitutes fraud and fraudulent activities, and  de nes a framework for preventing it from occurring. Code on Whistle-blowing The Prevention of Fraud Manual also contains a Code on  Whistle-blowing which outlines procedures for whistle-blowers  to communicate their concerns to the Board. This can be done  through the Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Head of  Corporate Governance, without Managements intervention  and interference. The Whistle-blowing Code also describes  the subsequent procedures to be taken for investigating and  dealing with fraud cases. Communication and Transparency It is important that our stakeholders and investing public  have up-to-date information on the Companys performance,  operations and other signi cant developments. Various  corporate announcements required under the MMLR including  the timely release of quarterly  nancial results have been  made during the period under review. In addition, detailed  information on the Companys signi cant corporate events  and developments were made through the media via press  releases and/or press conferences. Shareholders, investors and  stakeholders can conveniently access up-to-date information  on the Companys projects, quarterly  nancial position, investor  relations and general corporate information at its regularly- updated corporate public website http://www.mrcb.com.my.  There is also a Contact Us icon on the Companys website,  which leads to a webpage where shareholders and investors  can conveniently forward their questions and comments to  the Company. The Board also communicates to shareholders and investors at  the Companys Annual General Meeting, where information on  the Companys business activities, progress and performance  are shared. Shareholders are given the opportunity to vote on  key resolutions (as de ned by the MMLR and the Companies  Act 1965) and to pose questions to the Board or Senior  Management of the Company.     XIV.  Where review of audit reports of subsidiaries and any related corporation also falls  under the jurisdiction of the Committee, all the above mentioned functions shall also  be performed by the Committee in co-ordination with the Board of Directors of the  subsidiaries and related corporation; XV.   To review arrangements established by the Management for compliance with any  regulatory or other external reporting requirements, by-laws and regulation related to  the Companys operations; XVI.  To verify all Employee Share Option Scheme allocations to ensure that they are done  in compliance with the criteria disclosed by the Company to its employees; and XVII. To consider other topics as de ned by the Board. Option Scheme (ESOS) The ESOS comprises three members: an Independent Director as the Chairman, the CEO  and a Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors. The principle responsibility of the ESOS  Committee is to ensure that the implementation of the ESOS scheme is administered fairly  in accordance to the Companys ESOS by-laws approved by the Shareholders.  24   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CSR at MRCB  MRCB Group is committed to contributing to the nations growth  and interests in tandem with its core business activities. The  Group holds the principle to provide social assistance in terms  of monetary or in kind to society, needy individuals and the  nation. Our aim is to further enhance their quality of lives as well  as align our development goals in support of the Governments  principles of sustainable development. Our CSR Guideline  below applies to all the Groups companies and subsidiaries.  Four Core Activities 1.    IT Development    Sponsorship of IT programmes – a computer literacy  campaign focusing on rural people, schools and  orphanages. In addition, contributions in kind are made to  relevant schools and orphanages, such as the donation of  computers, printers, scanners and other necessities. 2.  Education      Establish Resource Centre – providing used books  and newspaper distributions to selected schools and  orphanages situated in the vicinity of MRCB projects.      Establish Learning the English Language programme  applicable to selected rural areas (mainly students),  selected orphanages and children of MRCB employees.      High Achievers Awards – monetary incentives to the  best students who are children of MRCB employees.      Establish a Young Leaders Campaign for poor primary  school students in rural areas by providing school  uniforms, school bags, school shoes and stationery.     Adaptation of a primary schools. 3.  Community Projects      Charitable programmes in the vicinity of MRCB  projects, namely Majlis Berbuka Puasa, Donation to  Surau & Mosques, Majlis Kesyukuran/Doa Selamat on  completion of MRCB projects.      Visits to old folks homes, donations to poor families,  donations to orphanages activities and the disabled.      Blood donation campaign by MRCB staff, gotong royong  and other activities that will enhance the societys needs  approved by the Director General of Inland Revenue,  Malaysia. IT developement community projects education national and  charitable organisations MRCBs Core  Activities 4.  National and charitable organisations     National organisations     Malaysian Government endorsed charity activities     Relevant Ministries activities     Local orphanages     Organisations for the disabled      Relevant foundations recognised by the Malaysian  Government      Entrepreneurial activities organised by the National  Chamber, Malay Chamber or relevant associations     Recognised charitable organisations  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   25   AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS Our CSR activities continued to receive recognition during  the year including international recognition for two CSR  programmes, while we continued to attain acknowledgment  nationally. In the international arena, MRCB was accorded with  two Distinguished Honourees for two programmes organised  by the US-based International Business Stevie Awards.  The MRCB PINTAR programme was accorded recognition  Corporate Social Responsibility Programme of the Year in Asia  (Subcontinent, Australia and New Zealand) while its Green  Building Initiative also received Distinguished Honouree as  one of the Environmental Responsibility Programmes of the  Year in Asia (Subcontinent, Australia and New Zealand). Nationally, Malaysia was awarded the Conglomerate Award by  the Brandlaureate Award while it continues to be recognised  as a  nalist by the ACCA MaSRA.  Organisation Award Venue Date NACRA Silver Award for Best  Corporate Social  Responsibility (CSR) category Sime Darby Convention  Centre, Kuala Lumpur 27 January 2011 BrandLaureate Conglomerates Award Shangri-La Hotel,  Kuala Lumpur 23 March 2011 StarBiz-ICR Runner up, Marketplace  category Intercontinental Hotel,  Kuala Lumpur  29 March 2011 MaSRA Sustainability Reporting  Awards 2011 Intercontinental Hotel,  Kuala Lumpur  4 October 2011 Stevie International Business  Awards Corporate Social  Responsibility Programme of  the Year in Asia (subcontinent,  Australia and New Zealand) Abu Dhabi, UAE 11 October 2011 Stevie International Business  Awards Environmental Responsibility  Programme of the Year  (subcontinent, Australia and  New Zealand)  Abu Dhabi, UAE 11 October 2011  26   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   27   OUR ENVIRONMENT  OUR FUTURE Short-term progress and pro t can never  come at the expense of long-term environmental  sustainability. We are focused on balancing  progress with the preservation of nature.  Our achievements in green building projects  are our pride in addition to other environmental  conservation efforts we engage in.  28   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  ENVIRONMENT At MRCB, we recognise that short-term progress and pro t  cannot come at the expense of long-term environmental  sustainability. That is why our CSR focuses on building socially  strong communities that can draw on its resources for the  present and in the future. We are focused on balancing progress  with the preservation of nature. Our involvement in environment protection has included:    The improvement in the ecological balance of  ora and  fauna    Protecting human and marine lives from further damage    Creating business opportunities for tourism-based  industries    Creating a safer and better environment for local  communities    Raising public awareness on alternative waste disposal and  recycling methods    A greater sense of responsibility for environmental  preservation As one of the leading proponents of green development, the  Group will continue to pursue sustainable development in  our core property business. We have consciously initiated  the adoption of a green development strategy for all future  developments in Kuala Lumpur Sentral. As a contractor, we are  also advocating a green development strategy for our clients. This strategy has been implemented in all current projects in our  iconic landmark Kuala Lumpur Sentral development include 348  Sentral, Lot G and Lot E - Platinum Sentral. Materials Usage and Wastage Data for materials usage for Lot G is shown below.  Type of Material Volume Concrete 69,656 m Steel Bar Reinforcement 13,768 tonnes Lot G: Nu Sentral Lot 348: Menara Shell and Ascott Sentral  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   29   Lot G Lot E - Platinum Sentral 348 Sentral (Planning Stage) Energy Ef cient   All underground parking  within the building   Air-conditioning system  uses a District Cooling  System   Provision of Energy Ef cient  Lighting, such as LED and  T5  ttings   Mechanical ventilation  system is coupled with CO  sensors   Energy Monitoring System  (EMS)   Implementation of lux  sensors with dimmable  light  ttings   Implementation of motion  sensor with light  ttings   Combination of green  coatings and materials with  vegetated roof   Reduced heat gain through  cool roof coating   All site and building  luminaries set at acceptable  illuminance value Environment Protection   Central storage and  collection of non-hazardous  waste material   Materials follow Volatile  Organic Compound (VOC)  content limitation   Use of non- chloro uorocarbons (CFC)  refrigerant   Singapore Green Label  Scheme (SGLS) and Green  Star Certi ed   Products with at least 30%  recycled content by weight/ volume  Photovoltaic System  Car park Guidance System   Recycle corner on every  of ce  oor   Wood based materials  certi ed by Forest  Stewardship Councils  (FSC principles) Green Building With the challenges of reducing our carbon footprint, our  green developments contribute to Malaysias Green Objectives  through:    Enhancing and synergising government transportation  mode and connectivity issues    Enhancing the image of building construction activities  which are often seen as a nuisance to the public    Increasing control of building thermal comfort and utilising  daylight   Minimising and structuring energy use and consumption   Reducing building contribution to heat island effect   Controlling and reducing light pollution in Kuala Lumpur    Educating and promoting waste management and green  materials The LEED Green Building Rating System is a third party  certi cation programme which encourages the global adoption  of suitable practices through universally accepted tools  and performance criteria. The  ve key areas of human and  environmental health covered by this certi cation are suitable  site development, water savings, energy savings, material  selection and indoor environmental quality. The Building and  Construction Authority (BCA) Green Mark is a Singapore green  building rating system which promotes sustainability in the  construction of buildings. It pays particular attention to energy  conservation and is endorsed and supported by the Singapore  National Environment Agency.   30   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  Lot G Lot E - Platinum Sentral 348 Sentral (Planning Stage) Indoor Environmental Quality   Construction Indoor Air  Quality (IAQ) and Waste  Management Plan  CO2 level monitoring   Environmental Tobacco  Smoke Control   Project uses low VOC paint  for all internal wall areas   Provision of high frequency  ballast for all  uorescent  luminaries   Comply with VOC project  speci cation Carpet and  Rug Institute (CRI) Green  Label Plus Programme Water Ef cient   Water ef cient  ttings to  reduce water usage  Use of Water Ef ciency  Labelling Scheme (WESLS)   All pavement is pervious for  water removal   Water ef cient  ttings to  reduce water usage; use of  green  xture and  ttings Compliance Air   Minimum Indoor Air  Quality (IAQ) Performance:  Compliance with Section  4-7 American Society of  Heating, Refrigeration and  Air-Conditioning Engineers  (ASHRAE) 62.1-2004 Thermal Comfort   Complies with the ASHRAE  55-2004 (Day Light and  Views. Daylight 75% of  Space) Energy Performance   Complies with ASHRAE/ Illuminating Engineering  Society of North America  (IESNA) Standard 90.1-2004 Air   Minimum Indoor Air  Quality (IAQ) Performance:  Compliance with Section  4-7 ASHRAE 62.1-2004 Thermal Comfort   To meet ASHRAE 55-2004  (Day Light and Views,  Daylight 75% of Space) Energy Performance   To meet mandatory  provision of ASHRAE/IESNA  Standard 90.1-2004 without  amendments ENVIRONMENT As the leader in integrated developments, epitomised by the  iconic and exclusive urban centre of Kuala Lumpur Sentral,  MRCB is committed to complying with environmentally- sustainable practices in all its future developments.  Since 2009, all new projects undertaken by MRCB Land have  adhered to global standards stipulated by reputable green  accreditation bodies. Among the standards implemented  are the Malaysian Green Building Index (GBI), US-based US  Building Councils Leadership in Energy and Environmental  Design (LEED) and the Green Mark by Singapores Building and  Construction Authority (BCA). Lot E - Platinum Sentral was the   rst development in Kuala Lumpur Sentral to work towards  obtaining its green certi cation; BCA Green Mark (Platinum)  and GBI (Certi ed). Lot E - Platinum Sentral has conducted its  pre-assessment  This commitment to sustainability constitutes a signi cant Key  Performance Indicator for the Groups investment projects. Kuala  Lumpur Sentral, as a central business district, is committed  to responsible Corporate Citizenship by continuing to adopt  Green Building standards and strategies, towards greater  environmental awareness.   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   31   Project Green Rating   LEED (USA) BCA (Greenmark  Singapore) GBI (Malaysia) Status Lot A - CIMB Tower – Gold Certi ed In progress Lot B - Q Sentral – – Gold In progress Lot C - St.Regis – – Certi ed In progress Lot D - Sentral  Residence – – Gold In progress Lot E - Platinum  Sentral – Platinum Certi ed In progress Lot G - Nu Sentral &  Perdana Sentral Pre-certi ed to Silver  level certi cation Compliance (self- declared). MRCB  follows the BCA  guidelines but there  are no plans for  certi cation. Registered for Certi ed  Level certi cation Compliance  (Self Declaration) Lot 348 - 348  Sentral & l Pre-certi ed to  Platinum Level  Certi cation – Registered for Gold  Level Certi cation GBI registration phase Ascott Sentral Pre-certi ed to  Certi ed Level  Certi cation – – – Lot E - Platinum Sentral  32   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  Energy Management The 10th Malaysia Plan (10 MP) re-emphasised the use of  renewable energy to meet Malaysias growing energy demands,  in particular hydro power for electricity generation and blending  of biofuels for the transport sector. Renewable Energy (RE) is  derived from natural processes that are replenished constantly.  RE includes electricity and heat generated from solar, wind,  ocean, hydropower, biomass and geothermal resources.  It also includes biofuels and hydrogen derived from renewable  resources. RE is seen as a growth sector that will help propel  the country into a high-income economy. RE plays a major  role in meeting a countrys energy needs, enabling businesses  to reap energy cost savings and revenue while combating  global warming. Malaysias commercial demand for energy  is projected to increase. MRCB is looking forward to working  with the Government to develop RE in Malaysia and is keen to  explore the opportunities ahead in RE.  MRCB has entrenched its commitment to Malaysias Green  Objectives in support of the Governments green agenda.  To date, we are proud to lead Malaysias green building initiative  by committing to abide by Malaysias Green Building Index for  all its current and future development. In addition, MRCB continues to participate in the Earth hour  movement by turning off all non-essential lights in our key  development each year. In our operations as a major developer,  we believe we should be concerned with the dramatic climate  change by making a positive contribution to climate change by  participating in green awareness programmes including the  monitoring of our energy usage during construction. Energy Consumption by Building in 2011 Location Electricity Use (kWh) Lot G 830,233.25 Lot E - Platinum Sentral * 5,271,507 348 Sentral 54,283 * The electricity consumption data for Lot E - Platinum Sentral is from January to August as the project was completed in September  2012.  ENVIRONMENT Wastes Management The management of our wastes is based on the national waste  hierarchy which:    Reduces the use of primary materials, prioritising those  which damage health or give rise to waste generation   Re-uses materials wherever possible    Disposes of remaining waste in a responsible manner which  is in compliance with the requirement of relevant licenses  and other obligations General waste (industrial, commercial and domestic waste) is  controlled under the Local Government Act 1976 and Refuse  Collection, Removal and Disposal By-Laws under the Act. The  following measures have been proposed for the handling of  wastes potentially generated during the construction phase:    General municipal wastes are stored in containers and  collected    Contractors are encouraged to minimise odour and litter  impact   Scrap metals are recycled   No construction wastes can be burnt on site  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   33   Solid Wastes from Construction Building Projects for 2011 Wastes Consumption Summary (Tonnes)   Scrap iron Soil (Earthwork) Total Waste Lot G 214 319,966 320,180 348 Sentral 1,741 – 1,741 Lot E - Platinum Sentral Completed Water and Ef uent Management LOT 348 Sentral Water Consumption 2011 Buildings Water Used (m3) Lot E - Platinum Sentral 5,836 Lot G 98,294 348 Sentral 19,213 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 Jan 982 Feb 1,013 Mar 1,291 Apr 737 May 1,738 Jun 1,645 Jul 1,293 Aug 2,561 Sep 1,725 Oct 2,001 Nov 2,301 Dec 1,926  34   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  ENVIRONMENT Parameters monitored Location Total Suspended Particulates (T.S.P) A1  At the north - within construction boundary A2  At the west - within construction boundary Noise monitoring Summary - Lot G The noise measurement programme is conducted in order to  determine compliance with the Schedule 6 of DOEs Planning  Guidelines for Environmental Noise Limit and Control,  2004. This stipulates that the noise levels at the project site  boundary must be controlled at all times and not exceed  65dB(A) for L90 and 75dB(A) for L10 during the day. The noise  level monitoring is conducted by Alam Sekitar Malaysia  Sdn Bhd using a Larson Davis sound level meter, which was  calibrated acoustically using a Larson Calibrator. The monitored  parameters and the frequency are as tabulated below. Considering the sampling station N1 and N2 is near to the main road i.e. Jalan Tun Sambanthan and Kuala Lumpur Sentral Bus  Terminals, noises sources are mainly from the passing vehicles,  buses, pedestrians and human activities in this area. It also  includes the construction activities at the adjacent project site. Air Monitoring - Lot G The points located at A1 and A2 were selected and Total  Suspended Particulates (TSP) were measured for 24 hours using  a MiniVol sampler. The monitoring of TSB was conducted by Alam Sekitar Malaysia Sdn Bhd. The monitored parameters and  the frequency are as tabulated below: Month Sound Level Noise Data Baseline dB(A) Point N1 Point N2 Point N1 Point N2 April 2011 LA10 72 70.5 80.3 73 LA90 62 68.5 50.8 56.1 June 2011 LA10 73 80 80.3 73 LA90 65 72.5 50.8 56.1 July 2011 LA10 77 74.5 80.3 73 LA90 63 64 50.8 56.1 October 2011 LA10 79.5 76.5 80.3 73 LA90 67.5 67.5 50.8 56.1 Compliance Limit Schedule 6 of DOEs Planning Guidelines for Environmental Noise Limit and Control, 2004- Maximum  Permissible Levels of Construction, Maintenance and Demolition Work by Receiving Land Use Summary of Monitoring Programme  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   35   Environmental Awareness Earth Hour On 26 March 2011, MRCB supported Earth Hour for the  third consecutive year in conjunction with the Earth Hour  campaign. All non-essential lights were extinguished for one  hour (from 8.30pm to 9.30pm) in its building and property  under its management. This included the Kuala Lumpur  Sentral development which comprises landmark of ce tower  1 Sentral - MRCBs Headquarters and Malaysias largest and  busiest transport hub, the iconic Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur.  Its Shah Alam property, Plaza Alam Sentral, also supported  this worthwhile cause. The event was promoted through internal communication  channels and all employees were encouraged to participate  in the event. Its staff. Malaysians and property development  players working together towards more sustainable lifestyles  to address climate change issues. As a sustainable property developer, MRCB has an obligation  to help create awareness on the issue of global warming  which is currently pressurising our planet. MRCB hopes this  contribution will create a new consciousness amongst its staff.  Malaysians and property development players to work towards  more sustainable lifestyles to address climate change issues.  MRCB contributes RM1 million to green KL MRCB contributed to the greening of Greater Kuala Lumpur  development plan by contributing RM1 million to the creation  of Taman Botani Perdana. Through this project, the 122-year- old Taman Botani Perdana was upgraded and rebranded to establish a premier world-class botanical garden in the heart  of the city. Originally called the Lake Garden, its name was changed to Taman Tasik Perdana by Malaysias second prime  minister Tun Abdul Razak Hussein, in 1975. This project  has resulted in greener tropical gardens which stretch  over 200 acres including the botanical gardens, majestic  trees,  owering shrubs and even a creative theme park. The Total Suspended Particulates of air quality level measured at Point A1 and A2 were found to be within the MAAQG limits. Air Quality Distribution for Point A1 and A2 Parameter T.S.P Baseline MAAQG [g/m] A1 (g/m) A2 (g/m) A1 (g/m) A2 (g/m) Apr-11 217 199 81 61 260 Jun-11 198.4 208.3 81 61 260 Aug-11 217 199.7 81 61 260 Oct-11 199.7 182.3 81 61 260 Dec-11 95.49 130.21 81 61 260  36   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  ENVIRONMENT Biodiversity and Conservation The bene ts of protecting our biodiversity exceed the mere  provision of raw materials. Our food and energy security  strongly depend on biodiversity. It also affects our vulnerability  to natural hazards such as  res and  ooding. Biodiversity loss has negative effects on our health, material wealth and it  largely limits our freedom of choice. MRCB values biodiversity  and conservation, and has established projects to help  safeguard it. Sg. Perai rehabilitation project On 30 November 2011, MRCB was awarded a contract by the  Department of Irrigation and Drainage to perform coastal  protection work at the Sungai Perai river mouth and nearby  coastal areas. Coastal protection work included beach  rehabilitation, the construction of a jetty, boat mooring facilities  and related works to cater for safe berthing and mooring for  the  shermen in Bagan Ajam and neighbouring areas. The 15- month construction is scheduled to be completed by March  2013. River of Life Project  On 6 December 2011, MRCB was formally appointed by the  Government as the Project Delivery Partner (PDP) for the River  of Life (ROL) Project with our joint venture partner, Ekovest  Bhd. The projects duration is three years and is valued at RM2.2  billion. The ROL project supports the Greater Kuala Lumpur  National Key Economic Area under the Governments Economic  Transformation Programme. The project aims to transform  the Klang valleys river assets that run through the heart of  Kuala Lumpur into a vibrant and liveable waterfront with high  economic value by performing the following initiatives:  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   37    Sg. Kuantan rehabilitation Project During October 2011, MRCB secured a contract worth RM46.5  million from the Department of Irrigation and Drainage for a  project in Pahang. Projek Fasa 2 Bagi Pembinaan Pemecah  Ombak di Kuala Sungai Pahang, is an extension of the  RM258.17 million contract upgrade of the Sungai Pahang River  and estuary (Phase 1), that was awarded to the Company in  October 2008. The main component of the project is to extend the breakwater  constructed during Phase 1 by an additional 200 metres.  The project is scheduled to be completed within 17 months. River Cleaning Project is conducted along a 113-km stretch along the  Klang River basin, covering the municipal areas of  Majlis Perbandaran Sepang, Majlis Perbandaran  Ampang Jaya and Dewan Bandaraya Kuala Lumpur. Master planning and Beauti cation Project is performed along a 10.7km stretch along the  Klang and Gombak river corridor. River Development Potential government land will be identi ed and followed  with a master planning and beauti cation works.  38   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  ENVIRONMENT Scope 2 The data for electricity was obtained from the monthly  electricity invoices issued for Lot E - Platinum Sentral and  Lot G. All data inputs are in kWh and cover the period from  January to December 2011. The emissions factor been derived  from the Malaysian Green Technology Corporation CDM  Electricity Baseline for West Malaysia. The carbon emissions  arising from the electricity consumption are as follow: Carbon Dioxide equivalent emissions (MT) from  electricity usage at Lot G and Lot E - Platinum Sentral 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 Emissions from Electricity (MT) 4,167.49 Scope 1 GHG emissions from company-owned vehicles are monitored  by tracking and tabulating all fuel purchases used for company- owned vehicles. It has been assumed that 75% of all fuel  purchases were petrol and 25% were diesel. The emissions  factor for diesel and petrol have been derived from the  Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change (IPCC) Guidelines  for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories. Carbon Dioxide equivalent emissions (MT) from  Company-Owned Vehicles in 2011 1,600 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 Emissions from Company-owned Vehicles (MT)  1,485.93 Carbon Footprint  In December 2009, Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Abdul Razak  announced that Malaysia has agreed to reduce its carbon  dioxide emissions by up to 40% by 2020 compared with 2005  levels. MRCB fully supports this vision and is including carbon management into this Report for the third year. MRCBs emissions accounting is based on the GHG Protocol classi cation of direct and indirect emissions. Emissions Scope Category MRCB's emissions Scope 1 Direct GHG Emissions Company-owned vehicles Scope 2 Indirect GHG Emissions Electricity Scope 3 Indirect GHG Emissions Air travel and employee-owned vehicles  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   39   Scope 3 GHG emissions resulting from air travel were measured from  point to point including the number of employees on board,  distance and  ight class. All short and long haul  ights were  included in the GHG calculation. Online tools derived from the  World Resource Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas Protocol have  been used to estimate the CO2 emissions from Air Travel. Emissions resulted from employees own vehicles have  been estimated from data deriving from a survey of 167  employees conducted in early 2012. Respondents were asked  questions to ascertain the type, make, model, year and type  of fuel required for each vehicle. Questions were presented  to estimate the average distance of daily business travel. A  Mobile Combustion GHG Emissions Calculation Tool from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative was used to calculate  the emissions. It has been assumed that each employee works  46 weeks on average each year. Carbon Dioxide equivalent emissions (MT) from  employee owned Vehicles and Air Travel in 2011 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 Emissions from Employee-owned  Vehicles (MT) Emissions from  Air Travel (MT) 2046.531737 105.85 At MRCB, we are  focused on balancing  progress with the  preservation of nature.  As such, the Group  will set targets for  carbon emission  reduction by 2012.  40   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  OUR ENGAGEMENT WITH  THE COMMUNITY We recognise the signi cant impacts  that our operations have on our communities.  At MRCB, we continue to contribute to  the development of the nation through  enhancing the construction industries, public  infrastructure, community needs and other  philanthropic activities.   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   41    42   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  Socio-economic development of the local community Our Children Our Tomorrow - PINTAR PINTAR – Promoting Intelligence, Nurturing Talent and Advocating  Responsibility – is a collaborative social responsibility initiative by  PINTAR Foundation, working in collaboration with Government- Linked Companies (GLCs) and private corporations in Malaysia  to foster academic and non-academic excellence particularly for  the underserved students nationwide through its school adoption  programme. In 2011, MRCB continued to support this cause by  contributing a total of RM397,237.20 to nine schools. This includes  all the programmes we sponsor for PINTAR schools including  motivational, tuition, and the sponsorship of school bags, shoes  and uniforms. MRCB donated school supplies to help alleviate  the economic burden of these underprivileged childrens parents  and their transition to school. MRCB also provides motivational,  educational and academic assistance in the form of educational  materials, tutoring and monetary incentives for high achievers.  On 23 November 2011, a futsal court was built at SK Tebrau Bakar  Batu, Johor Bahru to encourage students to excel academically  and be actively involved in co-curriculum activities. In the same  year, two students received the Anugerah Tokoh Cemerlang  MRCB 2011 for their academic excellence while two other  students were honoured with the Tokoh Ko-Kurikulum for extra-curricular achievement. Each student received a Voucher  Cenderahati Bank Simpanan Nasional (BSN) amounting to  RM150 as an incentive to encourage greater academic and extra- curricular achievements. The event was attended by 300 people  including more than 100 students and teachers from SK Tebrau  Bakar Batu, MRCB employees and of cials from the Ministry of  Education. The PINTAR programme covers a wide range of activities aimed  at providing tuition or additional classes to weaker and  nancially  disadvantaged students. The objective of the programme is  to improve academic performance and provide a better study  experience. We also donated school supplies to these students  to ease the parents burden on school item expenses. In 2011, we  continued our sponsorship of English Newspapers, DIDIK, to all  schools. With the motivation from the Government to encourage  the use of English in learning, these newspapers have become a  useful tool in improving students English language skills.  The UPSR passing rate achieved by students in these schools has  shown a signi cant increase over the years since the adoption  programme. A summary of these results are as follows: COMMUNITY   2009 2010 2011 SK Bagan Jermal, Penang 73.90% 78.80% 82.80% SK Tebrau Bakar Batu, Johor Baru 51.80% 60.20% 78.40% SK La Salle 1, Brick elds 61.40% 74.20% 71% SK La Salle 2, Brick elds 55.30% 62.90% 73.68% SK Indera Shahbandar, Pahang 61.22% 63.33% 65.78% SK Serandu, Pahang 77.27% 75.81% 75.88% SJK(T) Ladang May eld, Penang 64% 52.11% 62.86%  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   43   Tuition programmes sponsored by MRCB have helped  students prepare themselves for the UPSR examination.  As a result of this and other programmes initiated by  MRCB such as Klinik UPSR, Program Motivasi and Get  Together, the overall students pass rate and number  of students achieving 5As in UPSR has increased  signi cantly. Students enjoyed the interactive programme  and it has made learning more fun. I am really pleased  with MRCBs contributions and I hope it will continue in  the coming years. Hjh Fauziah Bt Hj Samsudin,  Guru Besar SK Indera Shahbandar, Pekan, Pahang. Every single bit of help from MRCB was a great motivation  for teachers and pupils in SK Serandu, especially for year  6 pupils. The teachers and pupils were very excited to have  learning processes outside the school organised by MRCB.  In addition, MRCBs contributions to buy workbooks were  a great help for the school, students and parents. Manisah Binti Wanthan, Senior Assistant, SK Serandu,  Pahang  44   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  COMMUNITY Improving Connectivity at Kuala Lumpur Sentral and its vicinity  With the community at heart, MRCB makes a point of  providing convenience and comfort to the public. Currently,  we have embarked on building connectivity within our iconic  development Kuala Lumpur Sentral and its immediate vicinity.  The LRT-Monorail integration project at SSKL is made available  by a 410m walkway which was completed in August 2010. The  work on the pedestrian crossing linking Jalan Tun Sambanthan  and the Nu Sentral Complex began in October 2011 and is  scheduled to be completed in July 2012. Once completed, the  pedestrian crossing will connect the monorail with SSKL.  The Kuala Lumpur Sentral Monorail integration works with  SSKL, forms one of the three LRT and monorail integration  project started in March 2010 which includes the monorail  stations at Titiwangsa, Masjid Jamek and Kuala Lumpur Sentral. MRCB welcomes the Governments vision of boosting public  transportation usage by improving transport connectivity with  SSKL as it is already the main transport for the Klang Valley. Upgrading Mosques Quarters MRCB spent RM3 million for the re-construction of workers  quarters and other facilities at Masjid Jamek Pasir Pelangi via  its subsidiary, MRCB Lingkaran Selatan Sdn Bhd (MLSSB). The  completed quarters was handed over to the Imam of the mosque  on 23 August 2011. The reconstruction involves eight units of houses in the more  than a century old royal mosque, Masjid DiRaja. The building had  never been upgraded, other than the repair and maintenance  work which was borne by the state government, since the  quarters were built in the 1980s. MLSSB reconstructed the quarters and added more parking lots  in the mosque compound raising the number from 50 to 180.  RM150,000 was also spent on building a futsal court for residents  at Kampung Bakar Batu and the pupils of SK Tebrau Bakar Batu.  This court is now being used by local residents. Artist impression of the sky bridge that connects Nu Sentral  with Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur Masjid Pelangi, Johor Bahru  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   45   Integrating sustainability  to our business Caring for our community A stakeholder communications session  was held with the Malaysian Association  for the Blind (MAB) on 2 March 2011  at the MAB building, located on Jalan  Tebing to discuss ways to help the blind  navigate their way around Brick elds  during the upgrading work. The dialogue  was attended by MRCB, DBKL and MABs  committee members. We realised that  our Brick elds construction project might  cause inconvenience for the blind with  unfamiliar obstacles blocking their way.  The dialogue was successfully concluded  with MRCB and DBKL gaining a better  understanding of the needs of the blind  community in Brick elds. Following this,  suggestions and requests from MAB were  implemented at all road works sites within  the Brick elds area. On a separate occasion, MRCB contributed  RM50,000 to MAB on 14 December  2011. This contribution has helped MAB  develop programmes for the visually  impaired to improve their livelihoods  and create a sustainable income for their  futures.  MRCB participates in PR1MA Scheme The 1Malaysia Housing Programme  (PR1MA) is speci cally for moderate- income Malaysians earning RM6,000  or less per month regardless of whether  they work with the Government, the  private sector or are self-employed. This  scheme assists the moderate-income  group who cannot afford to purchase  high-priced houses and are not eligible  to be considered for the existing low-cost  public housing programmes. MRCB participated in the of cial launch  of the PRIMA launch at Putrajaya which  was of ciated by the Prime Minister  YAB  Datuk Seri Najib Tun Razak on 4 July 2011.  MRCB has identi ed Seremban which is  one of 20 sites targeted for development.  42,000 houses are expected to be built  on these 20 sites. MRCB believes it is  important to develop affordable homes  in support of the Governments effort  to ensuring all Malaysian are able to  purchase their own homes. YAB Dato Seri Mohd Najib Tun Abdul Razak, the Prime Minister of Malaysia  at the Pr1ma launch Stakeholders dialogue with the Malaysian Association of the Blind (MAB)  46   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  COMMUNITY Culture and Heritage Annual Chinese New Years Lion  Dance Greets Kuala Lumpur Sentrals  Community In celebrating Chinese New Year with  our Chinese community, two lions were  invited to welcome the 2011 Chinese  Lunar New Year on 9 February 2011. The  lions performances ushered another year  of prosperity for the community at Kuala  Lumpur Sentral development. The lion  dance celebrations were held at Sooka  Sentral and 1 Sentral building, signifying  the bringing of wealth and prosperity  for both businesses and people alike.  The Lion dance began at Sooka Sentral  at noon and continued at 1 Sentral at  approximately 2pm. Both performances ended with the  successful capture of the green lettuce as  the lion retreat to the beat of the drum and  the throwing of Ang Pow or red packets  containing money to the crowds.  MRCBs senior management at the annual Chinese New Year lion dance Other Contributions MRCB contributes RM30,000  to  ood victims in Pagoh We handed over 1,000 cartons of mineral water worth  RM20,000.00 and RM10,000 in cash in aid of  ood victims in  Pagoh, Johore on Friday, 11 February 2011. The donation was  given to representatives of the Gerakan Belia 4B Negeri Johor. Philanthropic Activities A total of RM351,470 was donated for various charitable causes  including  ood victims in Pagoh, OKU Participations during  World Summer Games Athens 2011, Carnival Brick elds with  OKU in conjunction with the Independence 2011 and Pusat  Jagaan Orang Tua Al-Qaim. MRCB in Support of Anti-Crime On 4 October 2011, MRCB pledged to donate RM200,000 over   ve years to the Malaysian Crime Prevention Foundation  (MCPF), a non-governmental and not-for-pro t organisation  under the patronage of Prime Minister, Dato Seri Najib Tun  Razak. The MCPF aims to enhance crime prevention measures,  the rehabilitation of offenders and raise public participation in  crime prevention efforts. Developing our People On 26 November 2011, MRCB pledged to donate RM1 million to  Yayasan Peneraju Pendidikan Bumiputera (YPPB) at its of cial  launch by Prime Minister, YAB Dato Seri Mohd Najib bin Tun  Haji Abdul Razak. The main objective of the YPPB is to broaden  Bumiputera access to education helping more Bumiputera to  achieve high-income employment.  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   47   Engagement with the Community EDL stakeholders brie ng We held our  rst Eastern Dispersal Link (EDL) Expressway  stakeholders brie ng on 6 December 2011 at Puteri Paci c Hotel,  Johor Bahru, involving the media, the Singapore Consulate- General based in Johor and the business community. The main  purpose of the brie ng was to inform the stakeholders of the  impending opening of the EDL, and at the same time, gauge responses from the invited stakeholders. Our stakeholders  were briefed on the EDL and its bene ts. They were also shown  photographs while the media were invited for a tour of the EDL. Three stakeholders brie ngs took place which are summarised  below. Type of Engagement Stakeholders Attendance Media Brie ng 19 attendees representing 11 media organisations including  RTM, Best 104 (radio), Nanyang Siang Pau, China Press, New  Straits Times, Berita Harian, Bernama, The Star, Oriental Daily  News, Utusan Malaysia and Lembaga Lebuhraya Malaysia  (LLM) Singapore Consulate-General Two representatives from the Singapore Consulate Business Community of Johor 37 attendees from Johor Business Community represented  10 business organisations, namely Tourism Malaysia (Johor),  Johor Tourism Guide, Jabatan Pelancongan Negeri Johor,  Perkhidmatan Teksi Johor-Singapore Sdn Bhd, Persatuan  Kebajikan Tuan2 Punya Teksi, Kereta Sewa JB-Singapore,  Handal Indah Sdn Bhd (commuter bus – Johor - Singapore),  Dewan Perniagaan dan Perindustrian Tionghoa JB, Dewan  Perniagaan dan Perindustrian India JB, Dewan Perniagaan  dan Perindustrian Melayu JB, Johor Indian Business  Association and Iskandar Regional Development Authority. Direct and Indirect Impact of  Operations on Communities We recognise the signi cant impacts that our operations  have brought to our communities. Brick elds is the home  of one of our signi cant local stakeholder groups, due to its  close proximity to our  agship operation in the Kuala Lumpur  Sentral development. Our online community portal is dedicated  to the local community. This portal provides up-to-date  information on ongoing projects, a forum for communication  and networking between us and the residents of Brick elds. MRCB has committed to contributing RM1.6 million for the  beauti cation and maintenance of Brick elds. This contribution  was used mainly for the upkeep and maintenance of the Little  India Fountain, one of the tallest fountains in the country. As one of the largest property development and investment  companies, public infrastructure is given careful attention on all  our projects. This includes the building of roads, bus stops, civil  works and other aspects of community infrastructure. These  developments have resulted in positive externalities to our  local communities. We respond to the needs of people living  in the communities by conducting stakeholder assessment as  part of our project planning process.  48   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  COMMUNITY Investor Relations At MRCB, Investor Relations (IR) is an area of communications  which speci cally targets the investment and  nancial  community such as shareholders, institutional investors, fund  managers, analysts, bankers as well as research and stock  broking houses and the investing public. MRCB holds regular investor and analyst brie ngs as part of its  IR initiatives in integrating two-way communication with the  Community and other constituencies. The main objective of this  approach is to inform and update potential investors and current  stakeholders of MRCBs position in the current economic market  and to gain further con dence in the Companys management.  We aim to achieve a fair evaluation at our IR sessions. Our  team comprises Corporate Finance members and Senior  Management who present business updates and business  operational strategies. A total of 44 IR sessions were held in  2011 locally and internationally. This has resulted in an overall  positive positioning for MRCB with its brand being recognised at  the BrandLaureate Awards in 2011. Our IR Teams responsibilities include:    Creating awareness of the Groups potential, fundamental  and  nancial strength to the investment community.    Educating the investment community on the Groups core  business activities, strategy, vision and core values.    Communicating updates on the Groups new developments.    Selling and promoting the Group to analysts and fund  managers, which in turn will recommend the Groups  strengths to potential investors. The following communications media were actively used in 2011  to serve our IR stakeholders including shareholders; foreign and  local fund managers; research and investment analysts;  nancial  and business media; Government regulators and the  nancial  community. Public Policy Development and Lobbying As a GLC, MRCB supports the governments efforts on social  and national development. The Silver Book - Achieving Value  through Social Responsibility which has been adopted since 2007 outlines guidelines and principles for GLCs to contribute to society and manage their social obligations. This methodology is in line with our commitment to supporting  public policy development. In addition, we have made no  signi cant contributions to or maintained any links with political organisations during the reporting period. We also received  no signi cant contributions from the Government. Our ad-hoc  engagement activities include entertainment such as luncheon  and dinners; visits to relevant ministry or government agencies;  sponsorships and donations; events and direct mailing letters. Media    Feature article    Media releases    Interviews Event    Analyst Brie ng    Investors Conference IT    Corporate Website Publication    Letters    Annual reports    Newsletter    Questionnaire/survey  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   49   MRCBs staff attending the Global Innovation Brie ng Corruption We expect the highest standards of conduct and integrity  from all that have dealings with us including our employees,  directors, shareholders, consultants, contractors and the  public. We are committed to eliminating fraud and corruption  by ensuring all activities are conducted ethically, honestly and  to the highest possible standards of transparency, openness  and accountability.  Employees or any parties found to have participated in  fraudulent acts are subject to disciplinary action, up to and  including termination, pursuant to the Groups Human  Resources policies and procedures. Similarly, Directors are  also subjected to action as applicable under the law and  Companies Act provisions. Our Code of Ethics states how we  are expected to conduct ourselves and speci cally requires  offers of gifts, hospitality and any items that could give rise to  potential con icts of interest to be declared.  Employees are forbidden from accepting kickbacks, lavish gifts  or gratuities in any form. Employees are also not allowed to  give gifts, loans or other bene ts to a customer. Business deals  within MRCB are based on the best interests of the Company  and must not be motivated by personal considerations or relationships. Relationships with prospective or existing  suppliers, competitors or regulators must not affect the  independence and sound judgement of MRCB. A declaration must be made to the management in a situation  that may be, or appear to be, a con ict of interest. MRCB  employees are prevented from receiving payment for services  from any competitors, customers, distributors or suppliers.  Bribes or kickbacks are strictly prohibited.  MRCB does not permit con icts of interest on behalf of its  employees. Employees must not become involved in a con ict  of interest and must report such a con ict should it come  to their attention. Employees or their family members are  forbidden from accepting gifts, loans, business deals, or other  special preferences. Small gift items may be accepted and the  occasional meals.  We conducted a survey in early 2012 to gauge employees  knowledge of MRCBs anti-corruption and bribery policy and  other ethical guidelines in the code of Business Ethics. Only  13.77% of employees felt that there was inadequate information  provided on this area during induction training. Compliance We are pleased to report that there were no incidents or penalties  for violations involving anti-competitive, anti-trust and monopoly  practices at any time in the history of our operations. There have  been no incidents or penalties for non-compliance with laws and  regulations reported at any time during this period. No violation  or incidents of fraud, corruption or non-compliance with anti- corruption reported in 2011.  50   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  OUR EMPLOYEES OUR  GREATEST ASSET We contitinu nuu n e too t proovi v de car aree eer r growth th th thh  opppoo p rttunn u ititie ie ie ies to too our urr ur empplo loye yees es through gh gh gh  variou o s dee deve ve ve ve ve velo lo lo lopm m p en en en ent t pr p og ogra ramm mmes. Our be be beelililil ef ef ef ef ef ef ef ef ef e   in i  rewar ardi ding emp mp mp mplo lo loye ye ye y es e is ap appa pare rent in the co c mpetitive be bene ne  ts tss we prr pr pr prr prr p ov ovide. e A stringeent nt n   health andd saf afet et et ety  y  y  y po po poo p lililicy cy cy cy is s add ad addoppte ted ac across alll   operations ns inc nclu ludi ding ngg con onn ontrtrtrtrrtrtrtrtrtrrac ac ac ac ac ac acto to to toors rs r , su sub- b-co conttra ra raa raa ract ct ct ct ct ct ctor or o s and th t e  e su surrou ou ound ndin ing puubl bl blicicicic.  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   51    52   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  Labour Practices and  Decent Work  Work–life balance MRCB believes in providing a proper balance between work  (career and ambition) and life (Health, pleasure, leisure, family  and spiritual development). As part of our responsibility to our  employees, we conducted a survey in early 2012 to understand if  our employees believe we had the right balance between family  and work life within MRCB. We discovered that only 11.38% of  respondents were dissatis ed with this.  Supporting Local Talents Being a GLC, MRCB participated at the GLC Open Day which was  held at the KL Convention Centre from 24 to 26 June 2011. During  the event, we demonstrated how the Company developed  the nations largest transportation hub, Stesen Sentral Kuala  Lumpur (SSKL), which connects local and international  travellers and commuters. We also participated in the inaugural  Barisan Nasional (BN) Youth Job Fair 2011 which was held from  25 to 27 March and 18 to 20 November 2011. Between 400,000  to 500,000 job-seekers including school leavers and fresh  graduates attended the three-day job fair. MRCB also supported  the second Barisan Nasional (BN) Youth Job Fair which was  held from 18 to 20 November 2011. The job fair road tour helped  us to reach out and provided access to talents nationwide. These  job fairs targeted Malaysians. A total of 11,350 job applications  were received from the three events. Bene ts  In addition to the basic salary, we offer a comprehensive  attractive bene ts package. The health of our employees is of  paramount importance and we provide a comprehensive medical  package to employees. This medical coverage also extends  to the employees family members and includes outpatient  treatment, specialist care, ward entitlement and hospitalisation.  All employees are also entitled to dental treatment. An employee is entitled to sick leave on producing a medical  certi cate from the Companys panel clinics or during an  emergency by any registered medical practitioner. An employee  is granted sick leave without hospitalisation up to a maximum  of 28 working days per calendar year. An employee who is  hospitalised will be granted sick leave up to a maximum of 60  days per calendar year provided hospitalisation is recommended  by the Companys panel of doctors. WORKPLACE MRCB booth at the GLC Open Day  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   53   We believe that a balance between  work and life, leads to a happy,  healthy and  productive work  environment. Three days of leave is given to employees at their time of  marriage. Maternity leave is given to women who have children  and two days paternity leave is also given to fathers working at  MRCB. Maternity bene t is provided up to  ve surviving children  for female employees.  Alternatively, up to three days compassionate leave can be taken  each year by employees who suffer bereavements. Employees  are entitled to two days leave if they are victims of a natural  disaster which makes his or her house uninhabitable. At MRCB, we understand the importance of continuous  education for our employees. Employees of any level may apply  for educational assistance up to a maximum of RM6,000 for  courses up to degree level. This is subject to approval depending  on the relevance of the course to their current job scope.  An overseas clothing allowance is given every three years to  help employees travelling abroad to purchase clothes they  would otherwise have no need for. We will also reimburse  management and executive employees up to RM50 per month  to help with internet subscription fees.  We allow eligible employees to take one pilgrimage leave of 40  days in a lifetime. Employees who have served the Company for  more than  ve years are permitted to opt for the early withdrawal  of their retirement bene ts to help  nance the Haj.  A festival subsidy is given to all employees celebrating the  various festivals to enhance the good relationship between  MRCB and its employees and to join in the joy of the festival.  Each employee is entitled to one subsidy per year from the  following list of festivals: 1. Hari Raya Puasa - for Muslim employees  2. Chinese New Year - for Chinese employees  3. Deepavali - for Indian employees  4.  Christmas - for employees who celebrate Christmas Employees are given a voucher worth RM50 which is redeemable  at selected Departmental stores. As part of our impact assessment of these programmes we  conducted a formal survey of employee responses of those  entitled to various bene ts during 2012. 67.66% of employees  were satis ed with the medical bene ts they received. 62.87%  and 60.48% of employees were happy with the level of additional  care and group insurance policy bene ts respectively.  57.33% of those eligible were happy with the availability and  duration of examination leave and only 4.00% were unhappy.   64.07% of employees were generally happy with their jobs in  MRCB and its subsidiaries. Overall, we are pleased that our  employees are enjoying our bene ts. We hope to review our  bene ts programmes in-line with our employees expectations.  All MRCBs pension liabilities are covered through the EPF  scheme. The Employees Provident Fund (EPF) is a Malaysian government  agency under the Ministry of Finance. EPF manages the  compulsory savings plan and retirement planning for employed  workers in Malaysia. The EPF is intended to help employees  save a proportion of their salary in a lifetime banking scheme  which can be used in the event that the employee is temporarily  or no longer  t to work.  MRCB contributes 12% of employees salary to EPF savings  as required by law. MRCB also provides additional, unfunded  retirement bene ts to permanent employees who joined before  1 September 2002 and have been in the service for a continuous  period of at least ten years.  54   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  WORKPLACE Fair Pay and Equal Opportunities MRCB is committed to compensating all employees at a level  that is at least equivalent to the industry average for both  construction and property management sectors. The Group also  regularly reviews employees salaries and bene t packages as  the need arises. Employees Grievances Our grievances policy and procedures are important to ensure  that any one person does not arbitrarily make decisions which  will be prejudicial to the interests of the employees and MRCB.  These procedures allow employees to voice their problems or  complaints to higher levels of management. The purpose of the  procedure is to settle grievances as close as possible to the root  cause. In any event, an employee is encouraged to discuss his  or her grievance with the immediate superior  rst. If he fails  to get a satisfactory response, he may make use of the appeal  procedures. Collective Bargaining Agreements It has not been considered bene cial for us to have a Group- wide union with the relatively low number of non-executive  staff throughout the Group. However, we continue to respect  employees rights to join unions or organisations of their choice.  Being a responsible employer, the Group Human Resources  Manual has codi ed procedures and processes available for all  employees to engage collectively to protect their rights. Notice Period for Operational Change Any restructuring of operations is done after consultations  with managerial and supervisory employees. The impact of the  changes is also assessed when appropriate. If the Company  makes any operational changes which potentially affect our  employees, we have a policy of giving a minimum of two weeks  notice to the relevant staff. The more signi cant the operational  change, the longer the given notice period. In promoting a two-way communication with our employees,  we regularly communicate our activities, updates, proposed  programmes and other updates via our intranet which is the  main channel of communication with all employees. Human Rights Our Human Resources Policy covers a wide range of human  rights related topics. This Policy is also incorporated in our  Investment and Procurement practices, with human rights  screening as an added value given during suppliers and  contractors screening. There have been no incidents of  discrimination reported during the year. We are pleased to  report that there have been no incidents of discrimination or  risks to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Our  operations are mainly in areas of urban development which do  not affect the rights and lives of our indigenous community.  There were no incidents of violations involving discrimination,  child labour, forced or compulsory labour risks. Training MRCB continues to grow while placing emphasis on attracting  and retaining talent within the Company. We believe that  our employees are our greatest assets and crucial to our  continued success as a developer. Our workplace practices  and policies re ect this and we are committed to investing in  our employees training and career development.  The budget allocated for training in 2011 was RM827 per  employee. The average hours of training received per  employee is seven hours. We conduct internal training programmes and team building  activities for our employees. These programmes were  designed to develop individual initiatives, interpersonal skills  and the technical competence of employees.  As part of our responsibility to our employees, we conducted  a survey to gauge employee job satisfaction and the level to  which their training and career development programmes  ful l their needs. This survey was anonymously carried out by  independent consultants during early 2012.  Career Development for Employees  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   55   64.75% of surveyed employees believed the team building  programme had helped them feel a sense of company  pride and loyalty. 76.23% considered their people skills had  improved as a result of the programme. 68.03% considered  these exercises have helped MRCB develop a new working  culture.  MRCB employees are also encouraged to go for formal  certi cation such as diploma or degree to foster the next  generation of leaders. Currently, we are yet to design training  programmes for retirees. There were 76 internal training  programmes and 139 external training programmes held  in 2011. Some topics covered during these programmes are  highlighted below. Recognising our people as the most important asset, we  constantly put every effort into helping employees gain  maximum job satisfaction through challenging career  growth and development. An employee, who positively and  consistently demonstrates his or her ability and readiness for  higher responsibility, will be given the opportunity to rise in the  Company subject to the normal organisational constraints.  Promotions may not be within the same function. Progression  may present itself in other functions within the Corporation. At  times, such opportunities may even present itself in the form  of positions outside this country. There are those who excel  as being self-contributors. For these employees their ultimate  potential may be realised through other non-supervisory  positions. It is for this group of employees that the Career  Ladder Programme is introduced. Internal Training External Training Understanding An ISO 9001: 2008 Quality Management  System Seminar Akta-Akta dan Peraturan Perumahan untuk  Pemaju Perumahan Equipment training for Chiller Plant System for Lot E -  Platinum Sentral Quality Management Systems Auditor/Lead Auditor First Aid and CPR Course Certi ed Energy Manager Training Course Customer Service Excellence for Frontliners GBI Facilitator Basic and Advance Course CIDB Green Card Safety Training Effective and Ef cient Construction Contract  Implementation and Administration High Impact Culture Building OSH Management System Safety and Health Induction Training 2nd Annual Green Tech Asia (Optimising Green Water &  Waste Management for Sustainable Future) Creative and Dynamic Team Building Public Private Partnership Workshop CONQUAS Assessment for Business Projects Deep Change Leadership Programme  56   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  WORKPLACE Welcoming Suggestions At MRCB, we welcome suggestions from our employees and  have issued a series of Guidelines of Suggestion. Employees  are encouraged to give suggestions on various topics including  methods or processes to enhance daily working and tools  to expedite the work. All views on improving any aspect of  safety, health and of ce environment are welcomed. We also  like to hear about products and services offered by other  companies and ways to improve of ce operations. We welcome  tips on improving self-motivational, leadership, effective  communications skills and general working conditions. Sensible  suggestions will be implemented provided they are practical,  implementable,  nancially viable and not for personal interest.    Performance Appraisal At MRCB, we conduct a performance appraisal on a yearly basis  in addition to informal periodic and ad hoc reviews. This is to  ensure that regular feedback is given, thereby motivating the  strong performers and discovering performance gaps. During  the appraisal reviews, the overall performance rating that  has been determined based on the periods performance is  discussed. Emphasis is given to the individuals competencies,  achievements, training and development needs. We acknowledge  the importance of this review especially for:   Setting work standards.    Assessing the employees actual performance relative to  these standards.    Providing feedback to the employee with the aim of  motivating that person to eliminate performance de ciencies  or to continue to perform above average. At MRCB, performance management is an on-going, year round  interactive process between managers or supervisors and  their employees. We believe that if performance management  is properly managed, employees will perform in the most  effective ways to produce the desired results. Our performance  management system also helps managers and supervisors  assess individuals performance and build effective working  relationships with their employees through:    Assessing people on both their results, their competencies  and management practices     Encouraging ongoing coaching, counselling, development  and on-the-job training   Openly discussing career opportunities Step One - Distribution and  Completion of the PDR Forms The Performance Development  Review (PDR) forms are  distributed to the respective Head  of Companies / Head of Divisions  by the 1st week of October  together with the set guidelines.  The immediate superior will  arrange for a suitable time for the  Performance Review interview  with individual employees. Step Two - Veri cation and  Checking Human Resources checks for  completeness and accuracy of the  PDR forms before tabulating the   nal report. The above process is  completed within two weeks. Step Three - Review Committee Human Resource discusses with  individual Company/Division on  the justi cation of the grading  for each Executive at the levels  stated above if the ratings do not  follow the set guidelines.  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   57   Career Ladder Programme Unlike promotions to vocational, supervisory or managerial  positions, Career Ladder progressions are based on individual  competency and contributions. Progression through the Career  Ladder is based on the level of experience, skills demonstrated,  performance level and potential for growth. The higher the level  of each of the above criteria demonstrated by the employee, the  faster will be his or her rate of progression within the Career  Ladder and MRCB. As our operations become more complex,  the classi cations can be further enhanced.  We recognise the importance of understanding our employees  needs. As part of our employees career management framework,  we continue to conduct our formal appraisal system for full-time  employees twice a year. This evaluation also acts as guidance  for our remuneration system which is used in pay increment,  promotion and bonus decisions. In 2011, 100% of our employees  received a formal performance evaluation at least once during  the year.  Workforce Diversity Employee Turnover Total number of employees Employee turnover in Malaysia from 2009 to 2011* * 100% of Turnover was in Malaysia for all three years Breakdown of employees by gender Breakdown of employees by type 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 % 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 % 100 80 60 40 20 0 % 100 80 60 40 20 0 2009 2009 Non-permanent Male Permanent Female 2010 2010 2011 2011 2009 2010 2011 996 1,136 1,218 2009 2010 2011 35.24% 21.82% 14.20% 57.30% 71.90% 42.70% 28.10% 55.90% 71.00% 44.10% 29.00% 58.10% 69.90% 41.90% 30.10%  58   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  WORKPLACE We strive to prevent occupational injuries while ensuring a  comfortable and safe workplace. MRCB practices decentralised  management for its projects, each project is managed by  a site manager including all health and safety aspects. This  decentralised approach results in all occupational safety data  such as accidents being compiled for each site independently.  Our Health and Safety Manual covers all employees including  subcontractors at construction sites.  In order to be quali ed, all site workers are required to attend  three levels of mandatory safety training, including Construction  Industry Development Board (CIDB) Green Card course, which  is carried out by CIDB personnel. In accordance with formal  requirements, we liaise with CIDB to organise a Green Card  course for every 35 newly employed site workers. A compulsory  safety induction course is also conducted for all new site workers  whether they are MRCB employees or subcontracted workers. A  safety talk is given on a weekly basis before work commences. The statistics of accidents in 2011 are presented below. Other  project sites including Kuala Pahang, Permai Psychiatric Hospital  Johor, Lot A CIMB Towers, UDA Bangsar, Kelana Jaya, Ampang  Line Station and Lot B have no record of injury in 2011. Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) Year Total Man hours  (on total project) Accident Data  (MRCB Staff) Accident Data  (Contract Staff) Injury Death Injury Death 348 Sentral 1,316,151 0 0 2 0 Lot G  (Retail Of ce) 2,566,800  0 0 2 0 Lot E - Platinum Sentral 2,406,880 0 0 0 1 Breakdown of employees by gender 25% 20% 15% 10% 5% 0 2009 %Women in management %Women in top management 2010 2011 13.00% 14.29% 14.29% 20.00% 17.60% 19.05%  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   59   MRCBs Safety and Health Policy Statement  MRCB is committed to ensuring a safe and healthy working  environment for all its employees and others involved in its  operations. We also consider statutory requirements; relevant  national and international standards; and Code of Practice.  The effectiveness and implementation of the Safety and Health  Policy is our line managers` responsibility together with the  support and involvement of all employees. We continue to  ensure that suf cient and adequate training and resources are  made available to achieve this. It is hoped that the appropriate  practices and sharing of OSH approach and common values will  inculcate safety and health working culture for MRCB and its  group of companies. The Safety and Health initiatives are regularly reviewed to ensure  continuous improvement is made to the Policy and how it is  implemented. This policy is monitored to ensure the achievement  of our objectives and will be reviewed in light of legislative or  organisational changes. The organisational structure for MRCBs  Safety, Health and Environment is highlighted below. Chief Executive Of cer SR Manager, Group  Safety, Health &  Environment Executive, Safety, Health  & Environment Assistant/Clerk Building  Services SSSB Manager,  Safety, Health &  Environment MTSB Sr. Executive, Safety, Health &  Environment Infrastructure  Concession  & Environment Emergency  Rescue Team MRCB  Environment  S/B Safety & Health  Of cer  Site Supervisor 1 Sentral Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur MESB Manager, Safety  Sr. Safety  Of cer Safety & Health  Of cer Site Safety  Supervisor TTSB Safety & Health  Of cer Site Safety  Supervisor TTSB Safety & Health  Of cer Reporting  Functions - Special Task SSSB Manager,  Security Executive,  Security Safety Council Construction Energy Engineering &  Construction  60   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  MRCB Safety and Health Committee  As we are operating in a high-risk environment, it is our  responsibility to practice high standards of safety control  to safeguard our employees and other people that may be affected by our operations. In general, more than 45% of the  members of each Occupational Health and Safety Committee are  site workers. The structure of our Occupational Safety & Health  and Environment Committee for each project is illustrated  below. The number of safety of cers and project time varies depending on the project size and scope.The number of safety of cers on each  project site during 2011 are listed below. WORKPLACE Project  Safety and Health Of cer Site Safety Supervisor Safety and Health  Committee Lot A - CIMB 1 1 22 Permai 1 1 20 Lot G,Retail 1 3 19 LRT 1 0 19 Kuala Pahang 1 1 10 Lot 348 1 1 10 Kelana Jaya 1 0   5 Uda Bangsar 1 0 17 Lot E - Platinum Sentral 1 1 14 Chief Executive Of cer Senior Manager Chairman Deputy Chairman Executive MRCB  Representative Assistant Sub-contractor  Representative Secretary MRCB CORPORATE TEAM PROJECT TEAM  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   61   Internal Safety Training Programmes were conducted regularly  throughout 2011 for all sites. Our Safety and Health Manual  is provided to each site manager. Each work site has an  Occupational Health and Safety Manager who is responsible  for overseeing and regulating all aspects of work safety to be in  compliance with Malaysian laws. The Safety Manager also:    Assists in the development of Safety and Health rules and  safe systems of work;     Reviews  the  effectiveness  of  Safety  and  Health  programmes;     Conducts studies on the trends of accidents, near-miss  accidents, dangerous occurrences, occupational poisoning  or occupational diseases that occur at the place of work. He  or she reports any unsafe acts or unhealthy conditions or  practices at the place of work to the employer, together with  recommendations for corrective action;     Reviews the Safety and Health policies at the place of work  and makes recommendations to the employer for any  revision of such policies.  Safety Slogan Competition during the  2011 Occupational Safety and Health Week During the 2011 Occupational Safety and Health Week, MRCBs  348 Sentral project team won the safety banner organised by  the Department of Occupational Safety and Health (DOSH)  on 14 July 2011. A certi cate was received for 348 Sentrals  safety slogan SAFETY IS OUR PRIORITY, IMPLEMENTATION  IS COMPULSORY. MRCB had entered the safety slogan  competition which was organised to promote safety at work  awareness at all work sites in Malaysia. Annual Disaster Drill at Stesen Sentral Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur (SSKL) conducted an annual crisis  and disaster drill on 24 June 2011, designated as Ex Sentral  11 for the 11th consecutive year. This annual drill prepares  employees for emergency situations. This years event simulated  an armed robbery at the Transit Concourse, Level 1, Stesen  Sentral Kuala Lumpur. The exercise was conducted to minimise  risk and ensure the emergency response plan is executed  effectively in the event of an emergency. The public at Level 1, 2, 3 and 4 was requested to evacuate the  building and were led out before gathering at an identi ed open  area nearby. The simulation was conducted after operational  hours, so not to affect the trains and other public transport  services.  Semasa Sentral Sdn Bhd performed the successful operation  with the help of external parties. These include The Department  of Railways, National Security Council, Polis Diraja Malaysia,  Jabatan Bomba dan Penyelamat Malaysia, Emergency  Department University Malaya Medical Centre, Keretapi Tanah  Melayu Berhad, Ekspress Rail Link Sdn Bhd and Rangkaian  Pengangkutan Aliran Deras. Training for Contractors and Sub-Contractors MRCB recognises the need for environmental awareness  training for contractors and sub-contractors who are involved in  the construction phase of our projects. Environmental training is  conducted at the start of each project which involves awareness  of the Environmental Management Plan and best management  practice on site. The training exercise involves both theoretical  and practical techniques. Some of the training exercises that  have been covered include Emergency Response Plan (ERP)  training and induction; and Occupational First Aid.  62   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  OUR PROMISE TO  SUSTAINABLE MARKETPLACE  PRACTICES Ou Ou Ou Ou Ou Ou Ou Ou Ou Ou Ou Ou O r r ma ma ma ma ma ma m rk rk rk rkk rkk rket etpl p ac ace  e co co co co comm mm mm mm mm mm mmitititititme me me me me me me meent nt nt nt nt ntt ntt nt ntt ens ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns ns nss ns ns nsur ur urr ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur urres es es es es es es es es es es es es a smo mo mo m ot ot ot o h su su su su su su su su su supp pp pp ppp ppply ly ly ly ly ly ly ly-c -c -c -cc -c -cc -cc - ha ha ha ha h in i cyc ycc yccle l inv nv nvv l ol ol ol ol ol ol ol ol o i vi vi vi vi vi vi ving ng ng ngg rel el elat at at at a io ions ns nshi hi hips ps ps wititith ou ou ou ou ou ou ou ou ouu ou ou ou ou ouu ou ou ou ouu our r cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu cu c t st st st st s om m om om mer e s s an ann annd su su supp pp pp pp pp pp pp pp pp pp pp pp pp pp pp pp pp pp ppp pplilililililililililililililililil er er er er er er er er er er ers.s We co cont nt ntin in inuo uo uoo uo uo uo uoous us uss us us us us usly ly ly ly ly ly ly  en en enga ga gage ge ge wititititith th t es ese stakehol ol ol oll oll ol oll ol o de de de de de de de de de de de de de dee dee deers rs rs rss rs rs rss rs rs r to un un un un un un un un unn un unndee de de de de de de de dee de de de de d rs rs rs rs rs rs rs rs rs rss rs rs rs rss rs rs rsta ta ta ta ta ta ta taa ta taa ta ta ta ta d ndd nd nd ndd nd nd nd nd nd nd nd nd nd  th thhei ei ei ei ei eir r r ne ne ne ne ne ne ne ne nee ne ne need ed ed ed ed ed ed ed ed ed ed ed eds s s s too too achh chhie i ve the he hee he he he hee he he he he he he hee hee hig ig ig ig ig ig ig ig ig ig ig ighe he he he he hee he he he he h st st st st st st st st st st st st st st st s sat at a isisfa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa faa f t ct ct ct ct ct ct c io io io io io io io io io io io io io io io io io io io io io io io io io io io ion an an an an an an an an an an an an an and mo mo mo mo m st st ef f f f fcientt del eliver er er er er er er er e y.y.y.y.y    /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   63    64   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  MARKETPLACE MRCBs procurement decisions are made based solely on  MRCBs best interests. A proper agreement is documented which  clearly identi es the services or products to be provided. It also  included the basis for payment and the applicable rate or fee. The  amount of payment must be commensurate with the services  or products provided. All vendors are treated equally and are  accorded the same information at the same time. MRCB tries to  ensure there are no leaks of information during the procurement  process.  To ensure a fair procurement practice, a tender process is  encouraged at all times in the Company. Policies and processes  involved in our tendering aim to promote transparency and  prevent any con ict of interest. The brief process is outlined  below:    For a closed tender exercise, at least  ve prospective  subcontractors shall be shortlisted and called.    For open tenders, a tender notice shall be advertised in the  mainstream newspapers for at least three consecutive days.    The tender process shall be conducted in a timely and  transparent manner. The Tender Evaluation Report (TER) shall  serve as the basis for obtaining and evaluating tenders.    Information submitted by the subcontractors shall be kept  strictly con dential.    The cost quoted by selected subcontractors shall not vary  more or less than 15% from tender estimate. Should this  occur, an explanation is to be recorded in the TER.  Locally Based Supply Chain We conduct our major construction works entirely through  subcontractors. This is part of our effort to contribute to local  social and economic development. We allocate all subcontract  work to local suppliers in all signi cant locations and have a  common practice to source all materials locally before sourcing  them elsewhere. Operating contractors and suppliers must adhere to our safety  standards and speci cations. Project delivery is managed,  monitored and reported using a number of management tools.  Our myCRM software is developed in-house by the Group to  monitor every stage of our product lifecycle. The software is  continuously upgraded and improved to increase its coverage,  quality and security. The results of customers inspection on  their purchases are entered into myCRM software, which are  subsequently made available to the project and management  teams to help them rectify and monitor any defects on an  ongoing basis.  A Communication Policy Manual, a Property Manual, regular  customer satisfaction surveys and formal inspection processes  are also implemented at the pre-handling of all stages of each  project. The aim is to have adequate policies, procedures and  systems implemented to ensure safe and high quality delivery  to the highest level of customers expectations. Purchasing and Procurement Practices Quality Deliverable MRCBs proprietary procurement software MRCBs proprietary CRM software  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   65   Customer Satisfaction Surveys We conduct our Customer Satisfaction Surveys (CSS) on our  residential and commercial properties that MRCB develops  and manages. Surveys are also conducted six months after  the completion of a residential or commercial project including  other MRCB business units that are used for parking services,  security services, of ces and a shopping complex. The summary results of customers satisfaction for building  services in 2010 and 2011 are presented below. These includes  Semasa Sentral, Semasa Services, Semasa Parking, and Semasa  Security. Customer satisfaction results for building services  in 2010 and 2011 Customer satisfaction results for MRCB Land in 2010 and 2011 The summary results of customer satisfaction for MRCB Land  which covers MRCB Selborn, SIDEC, MRCB Utama, KLSB, MRCB  Sentral Properties and MRDSB are presented below. 90.5% 90.475% 90.45% 90.425% 90.4% 90.375% 90.35% 90.325% 90.3% 87.0% 86.5% 86.0% 85.5% 85.0% 84.5% 84.0% 83.5% 83.0% 2010 2010 2011 2011 90.4% 84.2% 90.5% 86.6% Our operations  are conducted  on best and fair  practices, which we  believe ensures good  results and quality  in our products  and services.  66   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  Life-Cycle of Operations The procedures above apply to all residential and commercial  properties that are sold directly to individual or end customers.  Construction projects that are undertaken from institutional  customers are also subject to similar procedures, excluding  the stage when the CRM team are involved. Engineering  and architecture checks apply to all MRCB projects. Upon  satisfaction of all parties, billing and post-purchase procedures  are followed. MARKETPLACE Provision of Information to Customers We continue to provide information to our customers and the  public on our residential and commercial properties through  brochures and booklets with speci cations of each unit.  Information included in each publication is based on checklists  which allow the potential purchaser to evaluate the unit against  speci cations. Repairs or replacement can be requested if  necessary before accepting delivery and up to 24 months after  delivery. Marketing and Communication Our advertising applies to advertisements in all forms of media  including television, radio, telephone, newspapers, magazines,  billboards, newsletter and the Internet. All communications by  MRCB comply with the cultural, legal and ethical standards of  the communities in which we work. We strengthened our internal  marketing approval process to ensure they are factual, clear and  properly communicated. It is a clear policy within the Group that  no misleading advertisements, promotions or sponsorship will  be tolerated in any way. The Communication Department has  established internal standards to regulate all communications  outside the Group. This applies across all companies in the  Group.  We ensure our sales personnel are well educated and  knowledgeable by providing weekly brie ngs and sales  kits to all our representatives. We also comply with the  Housing Development Act which states that all marketing  communications and advertisements in Malaysia must  rst  obtain approval and a license number from the Ministry of  Housing. We strive to protect customers from misleading  marketing messages. While these laws apply only to residential  properties, we have standardised the same regulations across  our portfolio of both residential and commercial properties.   The Sentral Residences exhibition and roadshow   APREC FIABCI in October 2011   Hari Raya Open House   Chinese New Year sales promotion   Senawang Phase 1C   Sales of Phase 1A (SST, Semi-D and Bungalows)   Q Sentral launch on the 22nd Sept 2011 Information Security All con dential and proprietary information concerning  securities,  nancial condition, earnings or activities of the  Company and information that is particularly sensitive including  knowledge of acquisitions and divestiture; new products or  processes; audit reports and earning  gures: and trends remain  con dential until they are fully and properly disclosed to the  public. At MRCB, corporate, customer and employees information are  strictly private and con dential and must be treated as such at  all times. Our policy recognises and respects the legal rights of  others on matters involving the ownership, use and disclosure  of intellectual property. This obligation to preserve con dential  and proprietary information continues even after employment  ends. There is also provision in the Code of Business ethics which  ensures customer information is to be kept and maintained in  the highest con dentiality.    Approvals  of Buildings   Actual  Construction,  Marketing  and  Promotion   Internal  and External  Control and  Checks   Necessary  Checks and  Repairs Post- construction  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   67   Economic Performance 2011 2010 2009 RM'000 RM'000 RM'000 Revenues  1,213,077  1,067,579  921,616  Other operating income 28,609  21,754  35,425  Investment Income 23,923  30,847  27,980  Share of pro ts of jointly controlled entity (2,852) (6,046)  (6,304) Share of pro ts of associated companies (1,469) (5,530) (10,194) Total Value Added 1,261,288  1,108,604  968,523  Economic Value Distributed Operating Costs (1,024,919) (904,689) (814,626) Employee Wages, Salaries and Bene ts (92,562) (73,892) (67,534) Payments to Lenders (35,213) (31,449) (38,570) Payments to Governments   Malaysia (15,326) (23,781) (9,009)   Overseas Total (15,326) (23,781) (9,009) Community Investments or group donations  (1,343)  (999)  (1,301) Non-controlling interests  (14,463) (6,526) (2,859) (1,183,826) (1,041,336) (933,899) Consolidated pro t for the year 77,462 67,268 34,624 Net Value Added 91,925  73,794  37,483  Payments to shareholders (3,095) (3,104) (1,680) Economic Value Retained 88,830  70,690  35,803   68   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  Economic Performance 2011 2010 2009 RM'000 RM'000 RM'000 Total Staff at 31 Dec per annual report 1,218  1,136  1,149  % Change in Staff 7  (1) 16  Total Equity  RM000 1,398,254  1,321,477  690,312  Total Long-term debt  RM000 2,557,886  1,803,981  1,731,372  Total capitalisation  RM000 3,956,140  3,125,458  2,421,684  Total Assets  RM000 5,411,172  4,388,340  3,118,752  Bene ts and rewards per employee  RM 76  65  59  Revenue per employee  RM 996  940  802  Community Investments or group donations Tax exempt & non tax exempt donation 522  416  268  Tax exempt & non tax exempt CSR expenses 511  349  913  Tax exempt & non tax exempt gifts 311  234  120  External works outside Lot N Boundary – – – Landscaping works outside Lot N Boundary –  – – 1,343  999  1,301   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   69   GRI INDEX In ensuring our compliance to the highest level of transparency in our Sustainability Report 2011 disclosure, we have adopted  the internationally-recognised reporting framework, the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI). G3.1 is a  nalised update of GRIs  most recent generation of Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, and is the most comprehensive sustainability reporting  guidance currently available. Status:  Fully Reported;     Partially Reported; x Not Reported G3.1 Content Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART : Pro le Disclosures Pro le Disclosure Description Status Cross Reference Reason for Omission and Explanation 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision- maker of the organisation  P10 - 15 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and  opportunities  P19 2. Organisational Pro le 2.1 Name of the organisation  Front Cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services  P2 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation  P6 - 9 2.4 Location of organisation's headquarters.  P5 2.5 Number of countries where the  organisation operates  P6 - 9 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form  P8 - 9 2.7 Markets served   P8 - 9 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation  P4 - 5 2.9 Signi cant changes during the reporting  period  P10 - 15 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period  P25  70   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  Pro le Disclosure Description Status Cross Reference Reason for Omission and Explanation 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period   P4 - 5 3.2 Date of most recent previous report   P4 - 5 3.3 Reporting cycle   P4 - 5 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the  report or its contents  P4 - 5 3.5 Process for de ning report content  P4 - 5 3.6 Boundary of the report  P4 - 5 3.7 Speci c limitations on the scope or  boundary of the report   P4 - 5 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures,  subsidiaries, etc  P4 - 5 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the  bases of calculations  P38 - 39 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any  re-statements of information   P10 - 15 3.11 Signi cant changes from previous reporting  period  P10 - 15 3.12 Table identifying the location of the  Standard Disclosures  GRI Index 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to  seeking external assurance for the report  Assurance  Statement 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation   P20 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest  governance body is also an executive  of cer  P20 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive  members of the Board  P20 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and  employees to provide recommendations or  direction to the highest governance body  P23  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   71   Pro le Disclosure Description Status Cross Reference Reason for Omission and Explanation 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.5 Linkage between compensation and the  organisation's performance   P21 and  AR2011:  Statement  on  Corporate Governance 4.6 Processes in place to ensure con icts of  interest are avoided  P24 4.7 Quali cations and expertise  of the Board  AR2011:  Board of  Directors  pro le 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission  or values, codes of conduct, and principles  P24 4.9 Identi cation and management of  economic, environmental, and social  performance, conduct, and principles  P26 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest  governance body's own performance  P22 - 23  and AR2011: Statement  on Corporate Governance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the  precautionary approach or principle is  addressed by the organisation  P45 4.12 Externally developed economic,  environmental, and social charters,  principles  P31, P55 4.13 Memberships in associations   P14 - 15 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the  organisation  P16 - 17 4.15 Basis for identi cation and selection of  stakeholders with whom to engage  P16 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement   P17 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been  raised through stakeholder engagement,  and how the organisation has responded to  those key topics  P17 - 18  72   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  STANDARD DISCLOSURES: Performance Indicators Performance  Indicator Description Status Cross Reference Reason for Omission and  Explanation To be  reported in ECONOMIC Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated  and distributed  P67 - 68 EC2 Financial implications and other  risks and opportunities for the  organisation's activities due to  climate change  P12, P35,  P38 EC3 Coverage of the organisation's  de ned bene t plan obligations  P52 EC4 Signi cant  nancial assistance  received from government  P48, P67 Market presence EC5 Standard entry level wage vs. local  minimum wage  P54 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of  spending on locally-based suppliers   P64 EC7 Procedures for local hiring  P52, P64 Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of  infrastructure investments and  services provided primarily for  public bene t   P42 - 44 EC9 Understanding and describing  signi cant indirect economic  impacts  P46 - 48 ENVIRONMENTAL Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume  P28 - 29 EN2 Percentage of materials used that  are recycled input materials X – We will continue to improve  our data collection and  measurement processes,  and aim to have this indica- tor available in our upcom- ing Report. 2013  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   73   Performance  Indicator Description Status Cross Reference Reason for Omission and  Explanation To be  reported in Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by  primary energy source  P32, P38 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by  primary source  P38 - 39 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation  and ef ciency improvements X – We will continue to improve  our data collection and  measurement processes,  and aim to have this  indicator available in our  upcoming Report. 2013 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy- ef cient or renewable energy   P32 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy  consumption and reductions  achieved  P29 - 32,  P35 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source P30, P33 Total water withdrawn  is disclosed in absolute  quantity instead of by  source. We will continue to  improve our data collection  and measurement  processes, and aim to have  this indicator available in  our upcoming Report. 2013 EN9 Signi cant impact of withdrawal of  water  P30, P33 EN10 Percentage and total volume of  water recycled and reused X – We will continue to improve  our data collection and  measurement processes,  and aim to have this  indicator available in our  upcoming Report. 2013 Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned,  leased, managed in, or adjacent to,  protected areas   P36 - 37 EN12 Description of signi cant impacts of  activities, products, and services on  biodiversity in protected areas   P36 - 37  74   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  Performance  Indicator Description Status Cross Reference Reason for Omission and  Explanation To be  reported in EN13 Habitats protected or restored X – We did not monitor the  habitats protected as a  result of our biodiversity  and conservation activities.  We will continue to improve  our data collection and  measurement processes,  and aim to have this  indicator available in the  next Report. 2013 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and  future plans for managing impacts  on biodiversity  P36 - 37 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species  and national conservation list  species with habitats in areas  affected by operations  X – We will continue to improve  our data collection and  measurement processes,  and aim to have this  indicator available in our  upcoming Report. 2013 Emissions, ef uents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse  gas emissions by weight  P38 - 39 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse  gas emissions by weight  P38 - 39 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse  gas emissions and reductions  achieved  P38 - 39 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting  substances by weight X – We will continue to improve  our data collection and  measurement processes,  and aim to have this  indicator available in our  upcoming Report. 2013 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other signi cant air  emissions by type and weight X – We will continue to improve  our data collection and  measurement processes,  and aim to have this  indicator available in our  upcoming Report. 2013  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   75   Performance  Indicator Description Status Cross Reference Reason for Omission and  Explanation To be  reported in EN21 Total water discharge by quality and  destination.  P33 Total water discharged  is disclosed in absolute   gures instead of by  quality and destination. We  will continue to improve  our data collection and  measurement processes,  and aim to have this  indicator available in our  upcoming Report. 2013 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and  disposal method P33 Total waste by disposal  method is not available. We  will continue to improve  our data collection and  measurement processes,  and aim to have this  indicator available in our  next Report. 2013 EN23 Total number and volume of  signi cant spills X – We will continue to improve  our data collection and  measurement processes,  and aim to have this  indicator available in our  upcoming Report. 2013 EN24 Weight of transported, imported,  exported, or treated waste deemed  hazardous  X – We will continue to improve  our data collection and  measurement processes,  and aim to have this  indicator available in our  upcoming Report. 2013 EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and  biodiversity value of water bodies  and related habitats signi cantly  affected by the reporting  organisation's discharges of water  and runoff  X – We will continue to improve  our data collection and  measurement processes,  and aim to have this  indicator available in our  upcoming Report. 2013 Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental  impacts of products and services,  and extent of impact mitigation  P29 - 30 EN27 Percentage of products sold and  their packaging materials that are  reclaimed by category  X N/A  76   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  Performance  Indicator Description Status Cross Reference Reason for Omission and  Explanation To be  reported in Compliance EN28 Monetary value of signi cant  nes  and total number of non-monetary  sanctions for non-compliance with  environmental laws and regulations  P29 - 31 Transport EN29 Signi cant environmental impacts  of transporting products and  other goods and materials used  for the organisations operations,  and transporting members of the  workforce.  P38 - 39 Overall EN30 Total environmental protection  expenditures and investments by  type. X – We will continue to improve  our data collection and  measurement processes,  and aim to have this indica- tor available in our upcom- ing Report. 2013 SOCIAL: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment  type, employment contract, and  region  P57 - 58 LA2 Total number and rate of employee  turnover by age group, gender, and  region P57 Total number and rate of  employee turnover by age  group is not available. We  will continue to improve  our data collection and  measurement processes,  and aim to have this  indicator available in the  next Report. 2013 LA3 Bene ts provided to full-time  employees that are not provided to  temporary or part-time employees,  by major operations  P52, P67 LA15 Return to work and retention rates  after parental leave, by gender. X – We will continue to improve  our data collection and  measurement processes,  and aim to have this  indicator available in our  upcoming Report. 2013  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   77   Performance  Indicator Description Status Cross Reference Reason for Omission and  Explanation To be  reported in Labour/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees  covered by collective bargaining  agreements  P54 LA5 Minimum notice period(s)  regarding signi cant operational  changes, including whether it is  speci ed in collective agreements  P54 Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce  represented in formal joint  management-worker health  and safety committees that help  monitor and advise on occupational  health and safety programs  P59 - 60 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational  diseases, lost days, and  absenteeism, and number of work- related fatalities by region P58 Accident data is repre- sented by total number of  injuries and death. We will  continue to improve our  data collection and meas- urement processes, and  aim to have this indicator  available next Report. 2013 LA8 Education, training, counselling,  prevention, and risk-control  programs in place to assist  workforce members, their families,  or community members regarding  serious diseases  P59 - 61 LA9 Health and safety topics covered  in formal agreements with trade  unions. X – We will continue to improve  our data collection and  measurement processes,  and aim to have this indica- tor available in our upcom- ing Report. 2013  78   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  Performance  Indicator Description Status Cross Reference Reason for Omission and  Explanation To be  reported in Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per  year per employee by employee  category  P55 - 57 LA11 Programs for skills management  and lifelong learning that support  the continued employability of  employees and assist them in  managing career endings X – We will consider to in- troduce such support for  employees approaching  retirement. 2013 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving  regular performance and career  development reviews  P56 Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies  and breakdown of employees per  category according to gender, age  group, minority group membership,  and other indicators of diversity P57 - 58 Governance breakdown  by age group and minority  group membership are not  available. We aim to have  this indicator available in  our next Report. 2013 Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and  remuneration of women to men by  employee category, by signi cant  locations of operation  P52, P54 SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS Diversity and equal opportunity HR1 Percentage and total number of  signi cant investment agreements  that include human rights clauses  or that have undergone human  rights screening  P54 HR2 Percentage of signi cant suppliers  and contractors that have  undergone screening on human  rights and actions taken   P54 HR3 Total hours of employee training on  policies and procedures concerning  aspects of human rights that are  relevant to operations, including  the percentage of employees  trained  X – We will continue to improve  our data collection and  measurement processes,  and aim to have this indica- tor available in our upcom- ing Report. 2013  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   79   Performance  Indicator Description Status Cross Reference Reason for Omission and  Explanation To be  reported in Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of  discrimination and actions taken  P54 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identi ed in which  the right to exercise freedom  of association and collective  bargaining may be at signi cant  risk, and actions taken to support  these rights  P54 Child Labour HR6 Operations identi ed as having  signi cant risk for incidents of  child labour, and measures taken  to contribute to the elimination of  child labour  P54 Forced and compulsory labour HR7 Operations identi ed as having  signi cant risk for incidents of  forced or compulsory labour, and  measures to contribute to the  elimination of forced or compulsory  labour  P54 Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel  trained in the organisation's  policies or procedures concerning  aspects of human rights that are  relevant to operations  P54 Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of  violations involving rights of  indigenous people and actions  taken  P54 Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of  operations that have been subject  to human rights reviews and/or  impact assessments  P54  80   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  Performance  Indicator Description Status Cross Reference Reason for Omission and  Explanation To be  reported in Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to  human rights  led, addressed and  resolved through formal grievance  mechanisms  P54 SOCIAL: SOCIETY Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness  of any programs and practices that  assess and manage the impacts  of operations on communities,  including entering, operating, and  exiting  P42 - 46 SO9 Operations with signi cant  potential or actual negative impacts  on local communities  P44 - 45,  P47 SO10 Prevention and mitigation  measures implemented in  operations with signi cant potential  or actual negative impacts on local  communities  P47 - 48 Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of  business units analysed for risks  related to corruption.   P49 SO3 Percentage of employees trained  in organisation's anti-corruption  policies and procedures  P49 SO4 Actions taken in response to  incidents of corruption  P49 Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and  participation in public policy  development and lobbying   P48 SO6 Total value of  nancial and in-kind  contributions to political parties,  politicians, and related institutions  by country  P48  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   81   Performance  Indicator Description Status Cross Reference Reason for Omission and  Explanation To be  reported in Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions for  anti-competitive behaviour, anti- trust, and monopoly practices and  their outcomes  P49 Compliance SO8 Monetary value of signi cant  nes  and total number of non-monetary  sanctions for non-compliance with  laws and regulations   P49 SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY  Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health  and safety impacts of products  and services are assessed for  improvement, and percentage  of signi cant products and  services categories subject to such  procedures  P66 PR2 Total number of incidents of non- compliance with regulations and  voluntary codes concerning health  and safety impacts of products and  services during their life cycle, by  type of outcomes  P66 Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service  information required by  procedures, and percentage of  signi cant products and services  subject to such information  requirements  P66 PR4 Total number of incidents of non- compliance with regulations and  voluntary codes concerning product  and service information and  labelling, by type of outcomes.  P66 PR5 Practices related to customer  satisfaction, including results  of surveys measuring customer  satisfaction  P65  82   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /  Performance  Indicator Description Status Cross Reference Reason for Omission and  Explanation To be  reported in Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to  laws, standards, and voluntary  codes related to marketing  communications, including  advertising, promotion, and  sponsorship.  P66 PR7 Total number of incidents of  non-compliance with regulations  and voluntary codes concerning  marketing communications,  including advertising, promotion,  and sponsorship by type of  outcomes  P66 Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated  complaints regarding breaches of  customer privacy and losses of  customer data.  P66 Compliance PR9 Monetary value of signi cant  nes  for non-compliance with laws  and regulations concerning the  provision and use of products and  services  P66  /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   83   ASSURANCE  84   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   85    86   /   MRCB sustainability report 2011   /   MALAYSIAN RESOURCES CORPORATION BERHAD 7994-D Level 21, 1 Sentral, Jalan Travers Kuala Lumpur Sentral 50470 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Tel: 603 2786 8080   Fax: 603 2780 7988 www.mrcb.com.my