Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  01  Citizenship at Microsoft About this Report Working Responsibly Serving Communities Our Company Microsoft 2012  Citizenship Report  Contents Citizenship at Microsoft 3 Serving communities  4 Working responsibly  4 Citizenship governance  5 Setting priorities and   stakeholder engagement 5 External frameworks 6 FY12 highlights and achievements Our Company 8 Our business 8 Where we are 8 Engaging our customers   and partners 10 Our products 11 Investing in innovation Serving Communities 14 Creating opportunities for youth 15 Empowering youth through   education and technology 16 Inspiring young imaginations 18 Realizing potential with new skills 20 Supporting youth-focused  nonprofits 23	Empowering	nonprofits 24	Donating	software	to	nonprofits	 worldwide 26 Providing hardware to more people  28 Sharing knowledge to build capacity  28 Solutions in action  31 Employee giving 32 Helping employees make   a difference  36 Humanitarian response 37 Providing assistance in times   of need  40 Accessibility 41 Empowering people with disabilities 42 Engaging students with special needs 44 Improving seniors well-being Working Responsibly 46 Our people 47	Compensation	and	benefits 48 Diversity and inclusion 50 Training and development 51 Health and safety 53 Environment 54 Impact of our operations 58 Technology for the environment 61 Human rights 62	Affirming	our	commitment 64 Privacy and data security 65 Online safety 67 Freedom of expression 69 Responsible sourcing 71 Hardware production 73	Conflict	minerals 74 Expanding our efforts 76 Governance 77 Corporate governance  79 Maintaining strong practices   and performance 80 Public policy engagement  83 Compliance  About this Report 85 Reporting year  85 Scope 85 Additional reporting 85 Feedback 86 United Nations Global Compact Cover: Participants at the 2012  Imagine Cup, Sydney, Australia.    Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  1  Citizenship at Microsoft About this Report Working Responsibly Serving Communities Our Company Im proud of the generosity of our employees. In October 2012 we are marking our  companys 30th Employee Giving Campaign, whereby the company matches the  financial	and	volunteer	contributions	of	our	employees.	Through	this	campaign,	 Microsoft and its employees gave nearly $100 million in FY12, and in FY13, we are  on track to bring the total to $1 billion since 1983.  Beyond	direct	service	to	the	community,	we	made	significant	strides	in	the	areas	 of human rights and environmental sustainability. We consulted with businesses,  government and other key stakeholders to develop a human rights statement  that brings together long-standing policies on issues such as privacy, security, free  expression and labor rights. And, we exceeded our goal to cut carbon emissions  by 30 percent compared with 2007, due in part to the 1.1 billion kilowatt hours   of green power we purchased, the third most of any US company. Being a leader in corporate citizenship, we recognize theres always more we   can do. Our endorsement of the United Nations Global Compact drives us to  continually improve our business practices and increase our accountability.  Im confident that in this coming year we will continue to create value for   our business as well as the communities and people we touch through our   citizenship activities. Thank you for your interest in Microsoft. We welcome   your thoughts and suggestions. Sincerely,  Steven A. Ballmer  CEO, Microsoft Corp. To our stakeholders, Weve always believed that technology creates opportunities for people and  organizations to realize their full potential. This belief inspires us to deliver   new technology that unleashes creativity, productivity, and opportunity for   more and more people around the world.  This	report	describes	our	citizenship	work	in	fiscal	year	(FY)	2012	and	shares	our	 vision	for	whats	to	come.	Together	with	our	annual	financial	report,	it	provides	  a	full	accounting	of	our	fiscal	and	citizenship	priorities	and	performance.	 The full scope of our citizenship activities includes serving communities, champi- oning the growth of our people, and advancing our commitment to responsible  business policies and practices. In particular, we are increasing our focus on  young people in order to help more and more youth reach their dreams.  Though we live in a time of tremendous opportunity, theres a growing divide  between young people with the chance to succeed and those without. To help close  this gap and ensure a prosperous future, we are launching Microsoft YouthSpark,   a bold initiative to connect hundreds of millions of youth with opportunities for   education, employment and entrepreneurship. In partnership with governments,  nonprofit	organizations	and	businesses,	were	helping	the	next	generation	use	  technology to make a real impact for a better tomorrow. For	the	first	time	ever,	we	are	now	dedicating	the	majority	of	our	cash	donations	 to organizations that help young people. And, through our Technology for Good  program,	we	provided	more	than	62,000	nonprofits	in	more	than	100	countries	 with affordable access to technology to better serve their communities.  Our Company Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Citizenship at Microsoft Citizenship at  Microsoft Our citizenship mission is to   serve globally the needs of  communities and fulfill our  responsibilities to the public.   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  3  About this Report Working Responsibly Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Since	the	release	of	our	first	product	in	1975,	weve	demonstrated	 the promise of computing to change the world. But as weve grown   as a company, so have the worlds social and environmental   challenges. Were responding by applying our technology, ingenuity,  and collaborative spirit to help solve these critical challenges and  create	fulfilling	and	exciting	opportunities	for	people	everywhere.	 We focus our commitment to corporate citizenship in two ways:  serving communities around the world and working responsibly   in our own business. Serving communities  Were active members of the communities everywhere we do busi- ness. We use our skills, technology, and other resources to serve the  people in these communities—from supporting disaster relief efforts  to	connecting	nonprofits	with	the	tools	they	need	to	run	efficiently.	 Creating opportunities for youth is the backbone of our community  work. By making technology more accessible and creating programs   to inspire and empower young people, were helping a new generation  of innovators build the skills and education they need to prosper. As  we work to bridge the opportunity divide that separates youth who  have opportunities from those who dont, we help young people secure  their individual futures and also the future of our global economy. It takes more than   a great product   to make a great  company.  Bill Gates, Chairman  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  4  About this Report Working Responsibly Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Citizenship governance  Our board of directors assumes overall governance responsibilities   for citizenship at Microsoft. Through most of FY12, the boards  Governance and Nominating committee handled oversight of all   citizenship and public policy issues. As FY12 drew to a close, however,  the board shifted citizenship governance to its new Regulatory and  Public Policy committee, which is charged with overseeing public  issues that may affect the companys operations or performance in  areas like human rights, climate change, and responsible sourcing.  Our Citizenship and Public Affairs team manages our overall citizenship  initiative, including stakeholder engagement. Part of our Legal and  Corporate Affairs department, the 30-person team is responsible for  driving new citizenship programs and engaging with colleagues and  partners to keep our citizenship work vibrant.  More broadly, citizenship at Microsoft relies on the combined  efforts of all our employees, including colleagues in dozens   of other leadership roles, business and operational groups, and   global subsidiaries. Together, they help us identify the issues   that are most material to Microsofts business, develop and implement  new strategies and programs, and monitor our progress.  Working responsibly  Good corporate citizenship starts at home. To meet our responsibilities  as a global company, were continually working to create a respectful  and rewarding work environment for our 94,000 employees.  Were also taking steps to reduce the environmental impact of our  operations while partnering with industry colleagues and leading  nongovernmental	organizations	(NGOs)	to	elevate	standards	across	 the supply chain. And with the release of our Global Human Rights  Statement,	we	affirmed	our	commitment	to	respecting	fundamental	 rights and freedoms throughout our business practices.   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  5  About this Report Working Responsibly Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft External frameworks To guide our work, we consult international frameworks such as the  Global Reporting Initiatives Sustainability Reporting Guidelines,   the	United	Nations	(UN)	Guiding	Principles	on	Business	and	Human	 Rights, and the UN Global Compact. This report serves as the  Communication on Progress of our commitment to the UN Global  Compact	(see index on page 86).	 Setting priorities and stakeholder engagement We regularly communicate with thousands of stakeholders from  global human rights experts and environmental NGOs to parents  concerned about their childrens safety and education. Those   conversations help inform and guide our citizenship strategies   and programs.  Our stakeholder engagement takes several forms. Employees   from our business and operational groups regularly identify and  engage with stakeholders in the course of their daily work activities.  Our Citizenship and Public Affairs team also manages a number   of stakeholder engagements and external relationships to help  guide our strategies.  We connect with leading thinkers on corporate responsibility issues   as participants in groups such as Business for Social Responsibility  (BSR),	the	Boston	College	Center	for	Corporate	Citizenship,	the	 Clinton Global Initiative, Net Impact, and the World Economic Forum.  In partnership with our colleagues in corporate governance and  investor relations, we discuss environmental, social, and governance  issues twice a year with our largest institutional investors.  We also listen to advocacy groups, socially responsible investors,  corporate responsibility rating agencies, and our own employees   to identify new and emerging citizenship issues.  E m p l o y e e s S h a r e h o l d e r s C u st o m e r s P a r t n e r s S u p p li e r s C o m m u n it i e s C o m m u n it i e s Our  stakeholder groups   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  6  About this Report Working Responsibly Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft FY12 highlights and achievements 100% of  Suppliers Required 100% of suppliers to  abide by our revised Vendor  Code of Conduct Helping  Youth Decided—on a go-forward  basis—to give the majority of  our cash contributions to  nonprofits	that	help	young	 people around the world 62,200   Nonprofits Donated software to 62,200  nonprofits	worldwide Carbon  Neutrality Set goal to achieve company- wide carbon neutrality by the  end of FY13 Reduced   by 30% Met our goal to reduce carbon  emissions by 30% per unit of  revenue compared with 2007 Human  Rights Released our Global Human  Rights Statement to communi- cate our policies and practices 120  Countries Reached 120 countries through  our philanthropy programs Employee   Investment Made the companys biggest- ever investment in overall  employee compensation $100 Million Nearly $100 million contributed  through our employee giving  and company match program $900 Million Gave more than $900 million   in cash and software to  nonprofits	worldwide  Citizenship at Microsoft Serving Communities Working Responsibly About this Report Our Company Our Company Our company mission is to help  people and businesses throughout  the world realize their full potential.   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  8  About this Report Working Responsibly Serving Communities Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Our business Microsoft	Corporation	(NASDAQ:	MSFT)	is	the	worldwide	leader	  in software, services, and solutions that help people and businesses  realize their full potential. Were committed to sharing our successes  with our employees, our shareholders, and the communities in  which we operate. We approach that commitment with the same  energy and innovation we bring to all parts of our business. Where we are Headquartered in Redmond, Washington, Microsoft employed  approximately 94,000 people on a full-time basis in more than   100 countries/regions and territories in FY12. Approximately 55,000  employees were based in the United States, and 39,000 were based  in other countries. Engaging our customers and partners Our success depends on creating new and compelling products and  services, while building strong relationships with our customers and  partners. We keep in touch through online feedback forms, support  communities, product satisfaction surveys, usability studies, research  forums, and our customer service Twitter account, @MicrosoftHelps.  The insights we gain help us understand and respond to our customers  and partners experiences. We also use information drawn from global  customer and partner satisfaction surveys as a measurement for  employee, executive, and regional performance. Our partners—approximately 640,000 mostly small to medium-size  local businesses around the world—develop, market, sell, and service  Microsoft	products,	supporting	millions	of	jobs	and	contributing	to	 local and global economic growth.  To learn more about how we connect with customers and partners  or to provide feedback, please visit the Microsoft Customer and  Partner Experience website.   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  9  About this Report Working Responsibly Serving Communities Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company BUSINESS STRUCTURE FY10 FY11 FY12 Windows  and Windows Live  Windows 7 and prior versions of the Windows   operating system, Windows Live suite of applications   and web services, Microsoft PC hardware products $19.49B $19.03B $18.37B Server and Tools Windows Server operating systems, Windows Azure,  Microsoft	SQL	Server,	SQL	Azure, Windows Intune,  Windows Embedded, Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft  Silverlight, Microsoft System Center products, Microsoft  Consulting Services, Premier product support services $15.38B $17.10B $18.67B Online Services Bing, MSN, adCenter, Atlas online tools for advertisers $2.2B $2.53B $2.87B Entertainment and Devices Xbox 360 gaming and entertainment console, Kinect   for Xbox 360, Xbox 360 video games, Xbox 360 accessories,  Xbox LIVE, Microsoft Mediaroom, Windows Phone $6.17B $8.91B $9.59B Microsoft Business Microsoft	Office,	Microsoft	Exchange,	Microsoft	  SharePoint, Microsoft Lync, Microsoft Dynamics ERP   and	CRM	solutions,	and	Office	Web	Apps,	which	are	the	 online companions to Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint,  and OneNote $22.19B $19.08B $23.99B Revenue by business division For detailed financial information, see the Microsoft annual financial report.  $2.10 FY10 $2.69 FY11 $2.00 FY12 $24.1B FY10 $27.16B FY11 $21.8B FY12 Operating income Earnings per share $62.48B FY10 $69.94B FY11 $73.7B FY12 Revenue  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  10  About this Report Working Responsibly Serving Communities Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Examples of our cloud-based computing services include:  	 Microsoft	Office	365, an online suite that enables people to work  from virtually anywhere, at any time, through simple collaboration  and	communication	solutions,	including	Microsoft	Office,	Exchange,	 SharePoint, and Lync. 	 Xbox LIVE service, which enables online gaming, social   networking, and access to a wide range of video, gaming,   and entertainment content.  	 Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, which provides solutions for  sales, service, and marketing professionals through a familiar  Microsoft Outlook interface.  	 Bing,	our	Internet	search	engine,	which	finds	and	organizes	  the answers people need so they can make faster, more   informed decisions.  	 Skype, which allows users to connect with friends, family, clients,  and colleagues through a variety of devices. 	 The Azure family of platform and database services, which helps  developers connect applications and services in the cloud or  onsite. These services include Windows Azure, a scalable operat- ing system with computing, storage, hosting, and management  capabilities, and Microsoft	SQL	Azure, a relational database.  Our products Our	products	include	operating	systems	for	personal	computers	(PCs),	 servers, phones, and other intelligent devices; server applications   for distributed computing environments; productivity applications;  business solution applications; desktop and server management tools;  software development tools; video games; and online advertising.   We also design and sell hardware including the Xbox 360 gaming and  entertainment console, Kinect for Xbox 360, Xbox 360 accessories,   and Microsoft PC hardware products.  Beyond our product portfolio, we offer consulting, product, and  solution support services. We also train and certify computer  system integrators and developers. Our cloud-based solutions  provide customers with software, services, and content through   the	Internet.	Revenue	from	these	technologies	mainly	flows	  from usage fees and advertising.   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  11  About this Report Working Responsibly Serving Communities Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Research and development R&D FY10 FY11 FY12 Spending $8.71B $9.04B $9.8B Spending as % of Revenue 14% 13% 13% More information about Microsoft investment in research and development   is available in our FY12	10-K	filing. Canada China Denmark England India Ireland Israel United States Innovating locally to compete globally Research and development teams around the   world add insight and talent to the work we do   at our headquarters in Redmond, Washington. Investing in innovation In FY12, we invested $9.8 billion in research and development— equal to 13 percent of revenue—focused primarily on product  development. To stay competitive, we make strategic, long-term  investments in research and development across a broad array   of technologies, tools, and platforms spanning communication and  collaboration, information access and organization, entertainment,  business and e-commerce, advertising, and devices.  To drive future growth, we focus our efforts on: 	 Initiating and embracing disruptive technology trends 	 Entering new product and geographic markets 	 Inspiring broad adoption of our products and services The people who power our innovations drive our success. We  compete for talented employees from universities and private   companies by offering broad customer reach, a wealth of   resources, and competitive compensation. We also collaborate with top universities through Microsoft  Research—one of the worlds largest computer science research  organizations—to advance the state of the art in computer science.   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  12  About this Report Working Responsibly Serving Communities Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company We fund research at both the corporate and business-segment levels to spark innovation and maintain   momentum. When innovations prove successful in individual segments, we share them throughout the   company. This way, we capture their full value. We develop some of our products internally, while others   result from partnerships, alliances, and acquisitions. We draw insight from key technology trends and   a long-term research plan to focus our innovation efforts on the following areas. Smart, connected devices Communications   and productivity Cloud computing As people use more and more  devices to access digital information  and online services, they need richer  software platforms and applications   to power their experiences. Were  combining smart, connected devices  with cloud computing to seamlessly  connect devices and transform the  user experience. Related offerings   Windows Phone, Xbox 360, Surface,  SkyDrive, Xbox LIVE, Bing, Skype, and  Windows Azure cloud platform Running	an	efficient	business	requires	  a clear view of all information  exchanges—no matter their type.   Were advancing productivity and   communications	in	the	office	with	  software developments that unify   key tasks, such as communications,   collaboration, business intelligence,  content management, and relationship  management.  Related offerings   Dynamics,	Exchange,	Lync,	Office,	Office	 365, SharePoint, Skype, Windows Phone,  and Windows Live Successful companies focus on key  business goals—not managing data  storage. Were advancing cloud com- puting infrastructure, platforms, and  applications to help businesses of all  sizes focus their attention at the points  of greatest impact. Related offerings   Microsoft Dynamics Online,   Microsoft	SQL	Azure,	Office	365,	 Windows Azure, Windows Intune,   and Windows Server  Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Working Responsibly About this Report Serving Communities Serving  Communities Were helping create a better future for young people and   fostering healthier, more vibrant communities worldwide. 14  Creating opportunities for youth 23	 Empowering	nonprofits 31  Employee giving 36 Humanitarian response 40 Accessibility  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  14  About this Report Working Responsibly Our Company Serving Communities Citizenship at Microsoft In this section Empowering youth through  education and technology Inspiring young imaginations Realizing potential with new skills Supporting	youth-focused	nonprofits FY12 performance and   FY13 commitments Creating opportunities for youth Todays youth are tomorrows leaders,   innovators, and entrepreneurs. Through   our Microsoft YouthSpark initiative, were  connecting hundreds of millions of young   people to opportunities for education,   employment, and entrepreneurship. 600,000 Students connected through  Skype in the classroom Free software for students and  teachers through Office 365   for education $1 million In Imagine Cup grants to help  students launch their ideas A faster, more accurate way   to diagnose malaria from one  Imagine Cup team  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  15  Working Responsibly About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Empowering youth through education   and technology For	young	people,	success	in	a	highly	competitive	job	market	 requires direct access to technology and relevant skills, as well as   a	supportive	community	of	educators,	leaders,	and	nonprofits.	By	 connecting youth to the resources they need, we can help them  create more opportunities for themselves, their communities, and  the world, and ultimately make a real impact for a better tomorrow.  	 Provided access to relevant and affordable education technologies  to 7 million young people worldwide through our Shape the  Future program. 	 Shared new learning approaches with 217 million teachers   and students in 119 countries to date through our Partners in   Learning program. 	 Advanced learning and collaboration among students and  teachers around the world through free access to Office	365	  for education.  	 Connected 20,000 teachers and 600,000 students to a global  community of other classrooms and guest speakers through  Skype in the classroom.  	 Equipped students with the technology skills they need   to succeed in todays evolving workplace at the Microsoft IT  Academy—a career-ready education program operating   in 160 countries.  A glaring opportunity divide separates young people who have   the access, skills, and chance to succeed from those who dont.   We believe we can and must help close this gap. Improving access  to technology, skills, and opportunities is the central focus of our  Microsoft YouthSpark initiative. Were using technology to make   it	easier	to	find	and	take	advantage	of	learning	opportunities,	  and were delivering real-life experiences that equip youth for   a successful future. Youth empowerment  starts with access, but it  doesnt end there. We  must also inspire young  people to envision a better  tomorrow and connect  them with opportunities   to realize their dreams. Brad Smith, Executive Vice President and General Counsel  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  16  Working Responsibly About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft   Student technology teams bring their ideas to life   through Imagine Cup competitions worldwide. Inspiring young imaginations Expression and collaboration are vital to helping young people   grow skills and develop ideas that make a real impact. Encouraging  young people through events and online communities can lead to  innovation and better career opportunities in the future. 	 Brought together more than 350,000 students from more than  260 regions and countries to participate in the 2012 Imagine  Cup—the worlds largest student technology competition. 	 Supplied high school and college students, teachers, and   schools with innovative designer and web developer tools  through Microsoft DreamSpark.  	 Awarded the 2011 Kodu Game Lab Cup to 10-year-old Hanna  Wyman, whose game, Toxic, involved collecting coins and  zapping pollution clouds to save the environment. Her innovative  idea led to a meeting with President Obama in February 2012. 	 Helped students adapt their ideas to real-world scenarios by   providing selected Imagine Cup teams with $1 million in cash,  technology, consulting, and other support.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  17  About this Report Working Responsibly Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Serving Communities Saving childrens lives with a Windows phone Sometimes	a	mosquito	bite	is	just	an	itchy	bump.	Sometimes	its	 the symptom of something far more deadly. In sub-Saharan Africa,  Asia, and parts of the Americas, mosquitoes often carry malaria,   a potentially fatal disease that takes the lives of more than 1 million  people	per	year—85	percent	of	them	children	under	the	age	of	five.	 One team that competed in the Microsoft Imagine Cup technology  competition believes it can save childrens lives by diagnosing  malaria faster and more accurately, increasing detection rates, and  ensuring medication is distributed correctly.  The current malaria test uses a chemically treated cotton swab to  diagnose an infection. But the test has a false positive rate as high as  60 percent, leading health care workers to distribute precious medica- tion to patients who dont need it. A new solution called Lifelens  provides a more accurate diagnosis using high-resolution images.  The concept is simple: a semi-spherical lens is attached to a Windows  phone, enabling the phone to take pictures of cells from blood  smears. The parasite is then detected using an algorithm. The test is  94 percent accurate and 40 percent cheaper than traditional tests.  Whats more, Lifelens automatically collects and stores data so it  can be transferred to a centralized server that aggregates the infor- mation to identify outbreaks before they become serious. Lifelens  can be used by anyone who has the ability to operate a cell phone,  lowering or eliminating training costs, and enabling testing to  reach—and save—more children.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  18  Working Responsibly About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Realizing potential with new skills Students need the opportunity to put skills and training into   practice. To build the foundation for future growth, we partner   with industry and government leaders to match skilled youth   with employment and entrepreneurship opportunities.  	 Accelerated career opportunities for students through free  access to state-of-the-art technology facilities at more than   90 Microsoft Innovation Centers in 44 countries.  	 Brought career opportunities to more than 110,000 students   in 69 countries by developing and reinforcing skills through   the Microsoft Students to Business program. 	 Helped young entrepreneurs launch new businesses by providing  access to software development tools, industry connections, and  investors through Microsoft BizSpark.  Microsoft Innovation Centers   are state-of-the-art technology  facilities that give youth advanced  skills and real-world connections  to help find jobs and become  technology entrepreneurs. Were launching new business   and entrepreneurial skills training  in a collaborative effort with  industry leaders and nonprofit  organizations, including Accenture,  International Youth Foundation,  and Telecentre Europe.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  19  About this Report Working Responsibly Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Serving Communities Inspiring young Arab innovators  People are full of potential, says Mostafa Nageeb, the young CEO  of	a	growing	startup.	They	are	just	looking	for	the	opportunity	and	 support to unleash their potential.  Thats exactly what Innovate for Good gatherings are all about— helping youth take charge of the future by bringing them together  to collaborate, inspire, and support one another.  At a 2012 event, Nageeb and more than 220 other young people   from 11 Arab countries came together to identify needs in their local  communities. Student innovators showcased how they used Microsoft  technology and programs to help change their communities for   the better. Others delivered speeches tackling challenging issues  related to the Arab Spring, the image of Arab youth, the potential   of e-governance, and the pressing need for community service. Nageeb talked about Ekshef, his online social directory that helps  people	in	Arab	countries	find	the	doctors	with	the	expertise	they	 need, and book appointments online in minutes. Access to health  care information is a basic right, he says. However, it doesnt exist in  many parts of the Arab region, including Egypt. Another participant,  Manal Elattir from Morocco, founded Anarouz Social Enterprise, an  organization that promotes empowerment and entrepreneurship   for women through market access and technology.  On	the	final	day	of	the	conference,	participant	groups	each	designed	 a	work	plan	for	a	project	serving	some	aspect	of	their	community.	 Innovate for Good is a great empowerment to people, Nageeb says.  I saw great examples of Arab youth who are changing the world  through their ideas, efforts, and innovation.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  20  Working Responsibly About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Supporting youth-focused nonprofits Beyond education, inspiration, and connections, young people need  social services and better assistance to contribute at a higher level.  Were empowering youth-focused programs and services, and   connecting	students,	nonprofits,	and	donors	that	share	similar	goals. 	 Decided	to	dedicate	the	majority	of	our	cash	contributions	  to	nonprofits	that	serve	the	youth	population	(ages	6–24). 	 Improved social services through an enhanced software donation  program. In FY13, the Microsoft software donation program will  reach	more	youth-focused	nonprofit	organizations	than	ever	before. 	 Built a one-of-a-kind micro-giving portal—Give for Youth—  to amplify fundraising for youth causes around the world. Read more about our donations to nonprofit organizations   in the Empowering nonprofits section.   Microsoft provides resources and support to help nonprofits   connect more young people with opportunities to succeed.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  21  About this Report Working Responsibly Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Serving Communities Photo courtesy of Todd Bishop, GeekWire Creating the next generation of tech leaders If computer science is one of the fastest growing and most   lucrative career paths, why are so few US high school students— less than 0.6 percent of all students who took Advanced Placement  tests in 2011—choosing to take a computer science class?  Kevin Wang, a former teacher and current Microsoft employee,  believes limited availability, not lack of interest, is at the root of   the problem.  Theres	just	a	huge	black	hole	in	computer	science,	Wang	says.	  I	started	teaching	first-period	computer	science	at	a	local	school	 on the way to work. Word got around, and schools wanted clones  of me to start computer science programs at their schools. Thats why Wang founded Technology Education and Literacy in  Schools	(TEALS),	a	program	that	trains,	mentors,	and	places	high- tech professionals from companies like Microsoft as volunteer  computer science teachers. The programs team-teaching model  also trains existing faculty, so they can continue teaching the  courses on their own. What started as a one-school, one-volunteer  program with 12 students is now expected to impact more than  2,000 high school students in 37 schools across eight states in the  2012–13	school	year.	 It is so incredibly important for high school students to be exposed  to	computer	science—just	like	biology,	chemistry,	and	physics— before college, Wang explains. Not everyone will become a  computer scientist, but everyone should have the chance to learn  about computer science in high school no matter where they  choose to go in life.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  22  Working Responsibly About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft See GRI Index for more     Our commitments for FY13 include 	Empowering 100 million youth to imagine and realize their full potential   by connecting them with greater opportunities for education, employment,   and entrepreneurship through Microsoft YouthSpark, which partners with   governments,	nonprofit	organizations,	and	businesses	around	the	world 	Launching the Microsoft YouthSpark Hub—an online space where young   people can explore and access all the services, programs, and resources   provided by Microsoft and our partners for education, skills, employment,   and entrepreneurship 	Launching Give for Youth, a micro-giving portal that helps individuals fund   and follow the aspirations of youth around the world 	Ongoing development of Innovate for Good, a global online community of  youth dedicated to using technology to make a difference in their communities  FY12 performance highlights Goal: Reach 250 million students and teachers across 115 countries   and regions through Partners in Learning, a 10-year, nearly $500 million   commitment weve made to help education systems. To date, weve trained nearly 11 million teachers and school leaders, and reached   approximately 207 million students in 119 countries. Were on track to reach our  goal of 250 million by 2013.  Goal: Increase access to quality 21st-century education through partnerships  with governments worldwide.  We collaborated with governments through our Shape the Future program   to create solutions that connected more than 7 million people globally with   relevant and affordable education technologies. Goal: Improve teaching practices and educational outcomes in developing   countries through partnerships with NGOs. As an example, through our work with the British Council, we helped ministries   of	education	and	stakeholders	equip	schools	in	six	African	countries	(Ghana,	Nigeria,	 Uganda,	Ethiopia,	Kenya,	and	Tanzania)	with	nearly	100	digital	Windows	MultiPoint	 server hubs that serve as ICT training centers for local teachers and students.  Creating opportunities for youth   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  23  About this Report Working Responsibly Our Company Serving Communities Citizenship at Microsoft In this section Donating	software	to	nonprofits	 worldwide Providing hardware to more people Sharing knowledge to build capacity  Solutions in action FY12 performance and   FY13 commitments $6.5 billion Cash, services, and software   given to tens of thousands of  nonprofits around the world  since 1983 Empowering nonprofits Technology can help nonprofits reach people  and places faster. Providing software, hardware,  and training services to organizations that serve  communities is an effective way to create impact  around the world. $804  million Software donated to 62,200+  nonprofit organizations  $99.6  million Cash donated to nonprofits  Helping nonprofits serve   their communities  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  24  Working Responsibly About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Effecting change requires practical tools. Powerful software can  connect	nonprofits	with	people	and	places	both	near	and	far,	  while also boosting fundraising, improving organization, and  helping demonstrate results to stakeholders. By providing access   to	software,	hardware,	and	training	services	to	nonprofits—and	 those they serve—were helping transform lives around the world. Donating software to nonprofits worldwide Software	can	help	nonprofits	overcome	obstacles	and	improve	 their service to communities. Thats why we donate hundreds   of	millions	of	dollars	in	software	each	year	to	nonprofits	through	  our Technology for Good program.  	 Donated	software	to	33	percent	more	nonprofits	in	FY12,	  reaching more than 62,200.  	 Increased awareness of our software donation program   through Whats your cause?—a campaign to spread the   word	to	eligible	nonprofits. 	 Improved	access	to	donated	software	for	nonprofits,	cutting	 restrictions on application timing and number of maximum  requests, and expanding eligibility criteria. Nonprofits need powerful  tools to transform passion  into progress. Modern  productivity, communica- tion, and collaboration  solutions help people drive  social change where its  needed most. Kurt	DelBene,	President,	Microsoft	Office	Division  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  25  About this Report Working Responsibly Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Serving Communities Future	engineers	build	their	first	robots Gina	Triolo	was	in	elementary	school	when	she	first	saw	the	Miss	 Daisy	team	robot	battling	on	the	playing	field.	Designed	and	built	 by students from Wissahickon High School in Ambler, Pennsylvania,  the robot was locked in a high-stakes, goal-scoring clash with other  robots from around the country in a FIRST Robotics Competition.  Inspired,	Gina	told	her	parents	she	would	one	day	join	the	Miss	 Daisy team. Nine years later, she had not only competed with the  team, but graduated as team captain. She went from a third grader  that didnt really understand the competition at all to studying  computer science at Princeton, said Alan Ostrow, Miss Daisys head  coach. And she interned at Microsoft the last two summers.  Gina	is	one	of	thousands	of	students	inspired	by	FIRST,	a	nonprofit	 that organizes robot competitions around the world. The contest— which gives high school teams six weeks to design and assemble a  sport-playing	robot—builds	students	confidence,	knowledge,	and	 life skills while motivating them to pursue career opportunities in  science and technology. Microsoft donated more than 2,400 Xbox  360	Kinect	Sensors	to	the	nonprofit	in	2012. Kids learn all kinds of useful skills, but they also become personally  invested	in	the	project,	said	former	team	member	Jared	Russell,	 whos now a robotics researcher at Lockheed Martin and a mentor  for current students. Were not trying to build engineers straight  out of high school. Were developing kids interests and skills so  they want to become engineers in the future. Photo courtesy of Team 341  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  26  Working Responsibly About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Microsoft has been a true partner   in this field. They were there at   the beginning, helping foster the  community, programs, and services  that we deliver. Today, they are still  here, helping NTEN and the field   redefine the next stage of our work.  Holly Ross, Executive Director, NTEN Providing hardware to more people  Access to a PC can change a persons life—creating direct   connections to education and employment. Weve made   PCs available to people who otherwise couldnt afford them. 	 Gave families access to refurbished laptops for only $150 through  the US Federal Communications Commissions GoodPC program.  	 Provided refurbished PCs to UK citizens receiving certain   government	benefits	and	nonprofits	for	only	99	through	  Get Online @ Home, created in partnership with the UK  Government Digital Inclusion program.  	 Sponsored the International Computer Refurbisher Summit,   an annual meeting that brings refurbishers together to   share knowledge. 	 Enabled	members	of	the	Computers	for	Youth	Affiliate	Network	 to tell their stories by providing consumer video cameras. 978 Nonprofits worldwide enrolled  in the refurbished PC program  in FY12   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  27  About this Report Working Responsibly Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Serving Communities REGION WINDOWS OFFICE Asia	Pacific 28,040 17,490 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 78,930 26,220 Latin America 23,040 700 North America 414,290 97,610 Total 544,300 142,020 Software supplied to nonprofits2  1 As of FY11, data includes employee in-kind giving of software. 2	Various	versions	of	Windows	and	Office	were	supplied,	depending	on	the	type	  of refurbished hardware. $99M $105M $804M $504M $844M $603M FY10 $949M FY11 $904M FY12 $99.6M Global giving Cash Software1 43,650 FY10 Nonprofit recipients  of software donation 46,886 FY11 62,231 FY12 3.20% FY10 Giving as percentage  of pre-tax profits 3.48% FY11 4.05% FY12  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  28  Working Responsibly About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Solutions in action  Our technology can provide a measurable gain in the type and  scope	of	change	nonprofits	bring	to	the	communities	they	serve. 	 Helped organizations increase employee and donor motivation  through Local Impact Maps, compelling visual displays of com- munity investments and results shown on a new platform based  on Bing Maps and Windows Azure. 	 Improved the delivery of humanitarian aid to the worlds poor   in some of the most remote areas by implementing Office	365	 for Concern Worldwide.  	 Provided web and technology expertise to champion anti-  corruption, rule-of-law, and transparency websites in Romania  through RestartRomania—an initiative that develops web-based  solutions	to	address	offline	issues.	This	partnership	between	  the US Embassy and TechSoup generated more than 2,000 user   profiles,	65,000	unique	visits,	and	220,000	hits.	 	 Advanced	operational	efficiency	at	KEXP	Seattle,	a	nonprofit	  arts organization and radio station, including powering donor   management and capital campaign processes through Microsoft  customer relationship management software, and promoting   collaboration	through	the	cloud	via	Office	365. Sharing knowledge to build capacity  To	complement	our	technology	donations,	we	meet	with	nonprofits	all	 around the world and share knowledge that can advance their work. 	 Collaborated	with	nonprofits	by	hosting	more	than	100	NGO	 Connection Days, attended by more than 6,000 NGOs and   12,800 individuals. 	 Educated 1,300 NGO staff on how to get the most value from  donated software via webinars conducted with TechSoup, with  94 percent stating they learned new skills and ideas.  	 Presented	nine	Social	Media	for	Nonprofits	(SM4NP)	conferences	 in the United States, with attendance reaching more than 2,400  through	partnership	with	SM4NP	and	the	Nonprofit	Technology	 Network	(NTEN).  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  29  About this Report Working Responsibly Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Serving Communities Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report Joining	forces	for	kids	and	families Social innovation increasingly requires social enterprises to collabo- rate with multiple partners. Developing and sustaining multifaceted  relationships with government, corporate partners, and philanthropic  funders	often	requires	an	initial	leap	of	faith	from	both	not-for-profits	 and	businesses.	But	the	benefits	can	extend	way	beyond	traditional	 ROI measures. Plunket is one of New Zealands most trusted brands. Weve been  careful	to	refine	our	model	in	terms	of	building	enduring	corporate	alli- ances, limiting the number of business partners we align ourselves with.  We also have a history of adapting technology to improve health  outcomes for children and families. Microsofts initial multimillion- dollar	software	and	services	grant	in	2008–09	acted	as	a	catalyst	for	 Plunket to better use technology as a key enabler. Two	years	ago,	we	embarked	on	our	biggest-ever	project.	PlunketPlus	 is a clinically led, technology-based systems development thats also   a	world	first—a	single,	interoperable	electronic	health	record	for	  children and families, allowing Plunket Nurses to share key health  data in real time with other health professionals and social services. The	fit	between	Plunket	and	Microsoft	is	a	strong	one.	With	the	 assistance of key Microsoft people, from Redmond to Singapore  and	here	in	New	Zealand,	weve	been	able	to	maximize	the	benefits	 of this support. Its a partnership thats capable of delivering beyond everyones expec- tations, with real potential to scale beyond New Zealand to improve  the health and well-being of children and families in other countries. Jenny Prince, CEO  Royal New Zealand Plunket Society Plunket provides well-child services   to New Zealand children from birth  through age five, serving more than 91  percent of the babies born in the country.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  30  Working Responsibly About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft See GRI Index for more     Our commitments for FY13 include 	Expanding the reach of our software donation programs 	Increasing	the	availability	of	our	nonprofit	cloud	programs	and	services	  for	nonprofits 	Helping	nonprofits	understand	and	adopt	new	products,	including	  Windows	8,	Office,	and	Windows	Server 	Creating an ecosystem that increases the development and distribution   of	technology	solutions	for	nonprofits FY12 performance highlights Goal: Make it easier for nonprofits to participate in our software donation  program and provide increased support to help them make the most of   the technology. With the help of our software program partner, TechSoup Global, we   introduced	a	simplified	donation	process,	increased	eligibility,	and	added	  new online service features.  Goal: Expand our software donation programs to serve more nonprofits.  More	than	62,200	nonprofits	participated	in	our	software	donation	program,	 surpassing	our	goal	of	45,000.	Our	target	for	FY13	is	to	reach	70,000	nonprofits.	 Goal: Make the latest version of Windows more readily available   to nonprofits.  We	gave	nonprofits	the	opportunity	to	get	more	out	of	their	PCs	by	making	 Windows Professional 7 available to our computer refurbishing partners for   the	first	time. Goal: Help nonprofits take advantage of the benefits of the cloud. We	worked	with	key	nonprofit	partners	to	showcase	how	others	are	using	the	 cloud to help their communities. We also shared information with NGOs and  offered training about the cloud. Empowering nonprofits   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  31  About this Report Working Responsibly Our Company Serving Communities Citizenship at Microsoft In this section Helping employees make a difference FY12 performance and   FY13 commitments Employee giving Our employees are passionate about   supporting their communities and causes   through charitable giving. To deepen   their impact and extend the reach of their   giving, we match their contributions. $99.8  million Combined US employee   giving and company   match in FY12 10,000+  employees Signed up to find   service opportunities   on Volunteer Manager Note:	Giving	by	employees	in	other	countries	is	not	reflected	in	the	above	US-specific	data. 64% employee participation in  our US giving campaign  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  32  Working Responsibly About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Charitable giving helps  create opportunity, solve  problems, and make the   most of peoples potential.  Were proud to amplify  employee efforts to create  real impact around the world. Lori Harnick, General Manager   Citizenship and Public Affairs Helping employees make a difference  Time and money can help almost any cause. Led by our employees,  we make charitable giving to worthy causes a top priority. And we  take our employees leadership seriously, which is why we match  employee giving of time and money to their communities.  	 Contributed $100 million through our employee giving and  company match program in calendar year 2011. Since 1983,  employee donations and Microsoft matches have totaled $946  million, and were poised to reach $1 billion in calendar year 2012. 	 Encouraged employee giving and volunteering by offering  company matching contributions for US employees—up to  $12,000 for total time and cash donations. 	 Provided at least three days off for volunteering for employees  outside the United States. 	 Increased employee giving participation to 64 percent in FY12,  with more than 38 percent of that group contributing either $1,000  before corporate match or at least 60 hours of volunteer time. 	 Increased volunteering participation by 12.5 percent year over year. 	 Registered	more	than	10,000	employees	and	2,000	nonprofit	 organizations on Volunteer Manager, Microsofts opportunity  matching system for bringing needs and skills together. 	 Motivated volunteering through the Give SharePoint site, where  employees can share experiences and opportunities with the rest  of the Microsoft community.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  33  About this Report Working Responsibly Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Serving Communities $84.5M FY10 $93.5M FY11 $99.8M FY12 Employee giving and company match donations $43.7M $48.9M $40.8M $44.5M $52.2M $47.6M Employee donations Microsoft match US employee volunteerism  FY10 FY11 FY12 Employee volunteers 4,200 4,412 4,967 Percentage of US workforce 7.5% 7.8% 8.9% Volunteering hours contributed 363,696 FY10 383,566 FY11 431,608 FY12  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  34  About this Report Working Responsibly Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Serving Communities Empowering young women in Kenya Disadvantaged girls in Kenya grow up knowing their options for  higher education are limited. Those who complete high school and  dream of attending college face extraordinary odds. All too often,  they end up back in the circle of poverty, with little support or  encouragement to achieve their goals.  Thats where Erin Zuehlsdorff enters the picture. In 2010, this  Microsoft employee discovered the power of mentoring through  Global Give Back Circle	(GGBC).	GGBC	helps	girls	in	Kenya	complete	 their	education,	develop	skills	to	find	jobs,	and	become	agents	  of change in their communities.  In 2008, GGBC began setting up IT labs in Kenya, in collaboration  with Microsoft Women of West, East, and Central Africa. Now,  young women in those communities get help staying on track by  taking a nine-month course covering scholarship opportunities and  career planning, as well as programming, web design, accounting,  and	Microsoft	Office	tools.	Mentors	like	Erin	use	Skype,	send	text	 messages, or write letters a few times a week, providing support  and friendship.  When Erin learned about Microsofts volunteer match program,   in which the company makes a cash donation of $17 per employee  volunteer hour, she realized she could help make an even bigger  difference. Now, she is working to attract additional employees   to become mentors. Erin says, Its such a small amount [of time]   to	give	for	so	much	reward.	Just	a	small	piece	of	your	heart—two	 letters	a	month—can	have	a	significant	impact.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  35  Working Responsibly About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft See GRI Index for more     Our commitments for FY13 include 	Making it easier for employees and alumni to contribute their skills and   expertise to local communities 	Championing volunteerism and assisting the industry to advance and better  adopt skills-based volunteering 	Supporting our employees giving and volunteerism activities worldwide FY12 performance highlights Goal: Make it easier for our employees and alumni to contribute their   skills and expertise to local communities.  We can now better connect our employees and alumni with organizations  thanks to the companywide rollout of Volunteer Manager, an online tool   that matches skills and expertise with needs.  Goal: Continue to support our employees giving and volunteerism   activities worldwide. Volunteerism was up more than 12 percent, and between our employees   generosity	and	Microsofts	match,	we	gave	$99.8	million	to	nonprofits	last	year.	 Goal: Support the Net Impact chapter at our headquarters in Redmond   to spark employee-led citizenship projects, and expand the chapter to   other campuses.  We fell short on this commitment—the Net Impact program did not go beyond  our Redmond campus. Employee giving   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  36  About this Report Working Responsibly Our Company Serving Communities Citizenship at Microsoft In this section Providing assistance in times of need FY12 performance and   FY13 commitments Humanitarian response Relief efforts move faster when information   technology keeps people connected. In the   last year, weve expanded our tools to address  the challenges that arise during a disaster. Connecting aid organizations  with victims in need $15  million+ In software donations to   support drought relief efforts   in East Africa Recognized as Laureate   in the Collaboration category   by the Computerworld   Honors Program  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  37  Working Responsibly About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft 	 Aided governments with disaster response using the Disaster  Response Incident Portal, based on the Windows Azure cloud  platform. The portal—developed by Microsoft Disaster Response  and used by key partners such as the Aidmatrix Foundation—  contributed to the following:   Ensured aid was delivered to victims of the March 2012   earthquake in Turkey as part of a collaborative effort with   the San Francisco Fleet Week Association.    Assisted	the	victims	of	the	2011	Japanese	tsunami	by	improving	 Second Harvests food-donation management system.  	 Received Laureate honor from the Computerworld Honors  Program in the Collaboration category for our 2011 response   to	the	Japanese	tsunami.	 	 Supported drought relief efforts in East Africa with more than   $15 million in software donations, which were granted to  NetHope and its member organizations working in the Horn   of Africa region. 	 Accelerated	critical	first-responder	decisions	by	developing	  a strategic partnership with Esri, a provider of geographic   information	systems	(GIS)	services	and	analytic	knowledge.	 	 Educated people and organizations—as part of National  Hurricane Preparedness Week—about using SkyDrive to   secure data and prepare for disaster. Providing assistance in times of need  When disaster strikes, every minute counts. Rescue, relief, and rebuilding  efforts depend on fast, accurate communication to make a difference.  Thats where we can help. We partner with organizations worldwide,  using	technology	to	keep	vital	information	flowing	during	emergencies.	 We also provide the support and services our customers need to get  their businesses up and running again, helping communities get back   to normal as quickly as possible. And, we dont stop there. We stay in  affected communities to help them rebuild over the long term. The best response to disaster is   to empower people to connect and   collaborate. We provide powerful   technologies and human support that  make it possible to keep families and  communities connected, and speed   the arrival of much needed aid. And,   as weve shown in Japan, we extend our  commitment beyond the immediate  need, supporting rebuilding efforts for  months and years afterward.  Yasuyuki Higuchi, Microsoft Corporate Vice President  and President of Microsoft Japan  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  38  About this Report Working Responsibly Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Serving Communities Getting help where its needed most During	major	disasters,	its	critical	to	get	the	right	relief	to	the	right	 areas—quickly. Notes from the Ground, a partnership between  Aidmatrix	and	Microsoft	Disaster	Response,	will	help	do	just	that.	 Everything is so hectic during disaster recovery, that by making  communication and data sharing easier, more time can be spent   in other areas of the recovery effort, said Keith Thode, COO and  CTO of Aidmatrix. Notes from the Ground will connect readers on www.msn.com,  Bing, and other Microsoft outlets to opportunities to help the  impacted community. As relief organizations post requests for  water, gauze, shovels, and other essentials through Aidmatrix,   citizens around the world are able to view precisely what is needed  on the ground. In addition, Microsoft Disaster Response and Aidmatrix seek to  provide an opportunity for on-the-ground responders to share their  stories more broadly. Through Notes from the Ground, aid workers,  volunteers,	and	first	responders	are	able	to	share	updates	on	their	 relief activities. It includes an interactive map containing stories,  photos,	and	videos	from	relief	organizations,	providing	firsthand	 accounts of how aid efforts are going.   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  39  Working Responsibly About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft See GRI Index for more     Our commitments for FY13 include 	Promoting better coordination through technology by expanding relationships  across our industry and the humanitarian response community  	Continuing to expand the technology solutions and services Microsoft   can provide in time of disaster 	Raising awareness for how technology can support personal, community,   and organizational preparedness and response FY12 performance highlights Goal: Make more robust solutions available to support disaster response efforts. We partnered with Esri, which provides geographic information systems, to help  first	responders	make	better	decisions	faster.	 Goal: Implement cloud solutions to support performance and scalability   during disasters. Were helping governments manage emergency situations more effectively   with Disaster Response Incident Portal, which runs on the Windows Azure   cloud platform.  Goal: Help businesses restart after a disaster with access to services   and technology that speed their recovery. After	widespread	flooding	in	Thailand,	we	provided	customers	with	impact	  assessments as well as support and services to help get their businesses   back up and running. Humanitarian response   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  40  About this Report Working Responsibly Our Company Serving Communities Citizenship at Microsoft In this section Empowering people with disabilities Engaging students with special needs Improving seniors well-being Accessibility Everyone deserves access to technology   that can help them realize their full potential.   Our technology can remove barriers, unlock   new opportunities, and improve quality of   life for people of all ages and abilities. 2011 FCC Chairmans Award for  Advancement in Accessibility  New templates for digital talking  books and Braille documents Seniors getting fit with Microsoft  Kinect for Xbox 360  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  41  Working Responsibly About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Empowering people with disabilities Technology enriches everyones lives—if they have the capability   to	use	it.	From	magnification	for	people	with	vision	impairments	  to speech recognition for people with limited use of their hands,   we create innovative home and work solutions that allow everyone  to develop their skills and share their talents with the world. For many people with impaired vision or hearing, or with physical  disabilities, accessible technology can have a transformative impact.  We build accessibility into many products and services we develop,  providing essential computer access to individuals with vision,  hearing, dexterity, language, or learning needs.  	 Advised businesses, governments, and NGOs on how to make  communications tools more accessible through our free Microsoft  Accessibility Tools and Training resources for developers, which  won	the	2011	US	Federal	Communications	Commission	(FCC)	 Chairmans Award for Advancement in Accessibility.  	 Shared strategies for incorporating accessible technologies into   the	workplace,	helping	businesses	expand	job	opportunities	for	 people with disabilities. We partnered with the Assistive Technology  Industry	Association	(ATIA)	and	the	US	Department	of	Labors	 Office	of	Disability	Employment	Policy	to	communicate	best	 practices and expertise to ATIA members, customers, and partners.  	 Showed	Indian	government	officials	how	technology	can	make	 public information more accessible to people with visual,  hearing, and learning impairments. Timed in support of World  Disability Day, we unveiled a set of 40 standardized Microsoft  Office	templates	that	can	be	converted	into	digital	talking	books	 or Braille documents. Today, people have to  adapt to technology. The  future lies in technology   that automatically adapts to  people, so users with a wide  range of abilities can see,  hear, and use a computer  and other devices. Rob	Sinclair,	Chief	Accessibility	Officer	  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  42  Working Responsibly About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft   Daunis Gente Excepcional A.C. is a Mexico City-based organization that   provides employability skills to young people with Down Syndrome. Engaging students with special needs Educating students of all needs and abilities is one of a teachers  most important—and challenging—responsibilities. We want all  students to have access to the best learning tools available, and   we work with teachers to make it happen.  	 Provided teachers with accessibility guides, curriculum resources,  teacher training workshops, and articles explaining how to inte- grate accessible technology into the classroom.  	 Supported educators using Kinect classroom activities for special  education students. Educators are enhancing classroom activities  with attention-grabbing, body-moving experiences that help   students stay engaged with curriculum.  	 Reported recommendations for providing accessible technology  through our partnership with the United Nations Educational,  Scientific,	and	Cultural	Organization.	Together,	we	convened	a	 meeting in November 2011 in Paris that brought together 30 partici- pants from more than 10 countries to discuss accessible technology  for students and report on practical solutions for educators.  	 Made it easier for schools to select, buy, and deploy accessible  devices and assistive technology in collaboration with Dells  Assistive Technology Service. Our work includes showing educators  how to create digital talking textbooks and other accessible  teaching materials using the accessibility features in Windows,  Office,	and	other	Microsoft	products.	  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  43  About this Report Working Responsibly Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Serving Communities Software helps student who is blind  reach the top of her class Ignacia Picas maintains a near-perfect grade-point average at her  primary school in Santiago, Chile. While her grades are impressive,  her feat appears even more remarkable when you learn shes blind,  yet participates in the same learning environment as her peers.  At Colegio San Benito, Ignacia once relied on a Braille typewriter   to complete her school assignments. But at age 12, a laptop running  the Windows operating system changed her learning experience.  She now excels by using accessibility programs in Windows and  built-in	tools	in	Microsoft	Office	applications,	along	with	the	Job	 Access	With	Speech	(JAWS)	screen-reading	software. Before, all of her assignments needed to be translated into Braille,  which took extra time and made it harder for Ignacia to keep up  with the rest of the class, said Viviana Contreras, Ignacias teacher.  When she started using Microsoft programs, together with the  JAWS	software,	we	noticed	everything	became	much	easier	for	her.	 The	JAWS	software	converts	text	into	spoken	words.	Ignacia	then	 uses the accessibility tools in Microsoft Word and Excel to create  documents, take notes, complete tests, and perform calculations  for math and science lessons. Ignacias story illustrates the power of technology, explained  Angel Dubon Marchelli, director of Microsoft Partners in Learning   in Latin America. Accessibility features in Windows and Microsoft  Office	can	empower	students	who	otherwise	might	have	had	  an	extremely	difficult	time	communicating,	collaborating,	or	  socializing with their peers.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  44  Working Responsibly About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Improving seniors well-being Older adults can live more independent and productive lives with  the right technology. We partner with governments and organizations  around the world to show how technology can reduce social   isolation, increase wellness, and enhance the quality of life of  seniors everywhere.  	 Gave	seniors	a	new	way	to	get	fit,	socialize,	and	manage	their	 personal health information online. Members of the Exergamers  Wellness Club in Los Angeles use Microsoft Kinect for Xbox 360,  Xbox LIVE, and Microsoft HealthVault to compete in virtual  bowling tournaments, dance to hip-hop and salsa routines, and  participate in other physical activities as part of a comprehensive  health and wellness program. See Seniors in Action. 	 Surveyed home care and geriatric care providers to learn how  technology can help older adults remain independent, productive,  and healthy in their homes. In collaboration with Philips and  LivHome, the Future of Home Care Technology survey was  designed to help providers learn how to better serve the needs  of older adults by improving quality of care and providing  information and reassurance to family members. A member of the Exergamers Wellness Club in Los Angeles, California.  Our Company Serving Communities About this Report Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft Working  Responsibly Were committed to responsible practices in our own operations,   with policies and programs that ensure were acting as a good   corporate citizen everywhere we do business. 46 Our people 53 Environment 61  Human rights 69 Responsible sourcing 76 Governance  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  46  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft In this section Compensation	and	benefits Diversity and inclusion Training and development Health and safety FY12 performance and   FY13 commitments Our people Our mission—to help people around the   world realize their full potential—begins with   our employees. Their passion fuels our success.  We compete for outstanding talent around   the world and keep employees engaged with   a dynamic, diverse culture that values growth   and well-being. 100%  Rating from the Human Rights  Campaign Foundations  Corporate Equality Index 3 million  Hours our employees dedicated   to professional training and  development opportunities 90% of employees feel proud   to work at Microsoft  Recognized by the Great Place to  Work Institute as the Worlds  Best Multinational Workplace  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  47  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft Our employees are innovators from every corner of the globe,  defining	the	Microsoft	experience.	Our	talent,	commitment,	diverse	 life experiences, and community contributions make us who we are,  and help us better understand customer needs. We value each  individual, rewarding outstanding talent and creating opportunities  for employees to grow professionally and support the causes they  care about. We also ask for—and act on—employee feedback in  search of new ways to continually advance our status as one of the  best places to work in the world. Compensation and benefits The worlds top talent demands and deserves a premier work envi- ronment. We deliver, with competitive compensation, performance  awards	and	attractive	benefits	packages	for	our	employees.	 	 Made	the	most	significant	investment	in	overall	employee	  compensation in company history, in part by shifting a portion of  stock-award targets into employee base salaries. We also increased  funding to deliver at least 100 percent of target bonus and stock  awards for approximately 85 percent of eligible employees.  	 Added	the	Opposite	Sex	Domestic	Partners	(OSDP)	benefit	eligibility	 option	for	US	employees	and	a	tax	gross-up	benefit	for	both	OSDP	 and	Same-Sex	Domestic	Partner	(SSDP)	health	coverage. 	 In the United States, maintained an industry-leading 87 percent  participation	in	our	employee	401(k)	program. Life at Microsoft is about  more than just the work;   its about who we are as  people. We have a passion  for life, for creating  outstanding products,   and for helping others  realize their full potential.  Lisa	Brummel,	Chief	People	Officer	  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  48  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft Diversity and inclusion A diverse and inclusive workforce makes change possible and  pushes innovation forward. Bringing unique, powerful perspectives  together allows differences to shine and similarities to emerge,  helping us better understand and meet the needs of our diverse  customers around the world. With this in mind, weve set priorities  aligned with a strategic plan based on representation, inclusion,  and market innovation. 	 Equipped 2,000 Microsoft managers with skills and training  focusing on conscious and unconscious bias to foster an   inclusive workplace. 	 Inspired students from all backgrounds through youth programs  such as Blacks at Microsoft Minority Student Day, DigiGirlz, and  other opportunities to pursue science, technology, engineering,  and	math	(STEM)	disciplines,	which	are	critical	to	our	industry	 and the global economy. 	 Promoted the development of assistive technology for people   with disabilities by bringing together the Cross Disability Employee  Resource	Group	(ERG)	with	the	Trustworthy	Computing	Accessibility	 Business Unit at the April 2012 Microsoft Ability Summit. 	 Endorsed legislation to legalize gay marriage in the US state   of Washington.  	 Expanded our ERGs—which include more than 10,000 members—   with the addition of the new Generations at Microsoft ERG. EMPLOYEE POLL RESULTS 2010 2011 2012 Employee response rate 85% 90% 88% Employees who feel proud to work at Microsoft 89% 86% 90% Employees who feel they are treated with dignity   and respect by their managers 91% 92% 92% Employees who would recommend Microsoft   as a great place to work 86% 83% 86% Employees who feel their work group values  diverse opinions 83% 84% 86% Employees who feel their work group speaks  openly and honestly, even when news is bad 80% 81% 82% Employees who have a positive opinion about the  degree	of	flexibility	they	are	given	in	their	job 82% 83% 84% Employees who feel Microsoft is a good corporate  citizen in employees' communities and in the world 91% 91% 93% Since 2000, thousands of young  women in 16 countries have received  free technology education, interactive  experiences, and a firsthand look   at careers in technology through  Microsofts DigiGirlz technology  programs.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  49  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Working Responsibly 55,000 United States 39,000 Other countries  Microsoft employees1 94,000 FY12 1 Each icon represents 1,000 employees. 2 US minorities include the following populations: African American/Black, American Indian/Alaska  Native,	Asian,	Hispanic/Latino(a),	Native	Hawaiian/Other	Pacific	Islander. 22% FY10 22% FY11 27% FY12 40 FY10 35 FY11 35 FY12 34% FY10 35% FY11 36% FY12 Minorities in the US Microsoft workforce2 Women in the global  Microsoft workforce Women and US minorities on the  Microsoft board of directors2 Women and US minorities in executive positions at Microsoft2 24% FY10 24% FY11 24% FY12 approx. 21,600 approx. 21,300 approx. 20,300 approx. 18,700 approx. 19,200 approx. 20,200  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  50  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft Training and development Our employees never stop seeking new opportunities to grow. We  continually evaluate and evolve our training opportunities to meet  their	specific	needs.	By	adapting	our	programs	to	meet	a	variety	of	 learning styles—in the classroom, online, through video, and in other  forms—we ensure our employees continue to learn and move their  careers forward. 	 Increased employee participation in professional training   opportunities—more	than	3	million	hours,	up	from	just	over	  2 million in FY11. 	 Boosted employee satisfaction for training courses to a rating   of 4.37 out of 5 in FY12, up from 4.09 in FY11. Microsoft was inducted into Training magazines Top 10 Hall of Fame,   which recognizes successful corporate training programs. 2.02M  FY11 3.05M  FY12 4.09  FY11 4.37  FY12 On a scale of 1-5, with 5 being the highest Total employee training  and development hours Employee rating of training  effectiveness 1,500+ Number of employees who received  tuition assistance  $9.1M Total tuition  assistance provided   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  51  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft Health and safety Were committed to facilitating a safe work environment for   our employees. To us, that means establishing solid goals and  targets for safety management and compliance. We seek to   integrate sound safety and health practices into every aspect   of our business, supporting the well-being of our employees,  contractors, and customers. 	 Increased employee visibility of our efforts through issuance   of a more robust Employee Safety and Health Manual. 	 Enrolled 1,110 employees in 74 different employee health and  safety training courses focused on chemicals, lead awareness,  laser safety, and use of personal protective equipment. 	 Enhanced the ability of employees working in labs or in research  and development to get quick and easy access to information  about chemicals used at Microsoft by making nearly 1600 material  safety data sheets available to them in the cloud. 	 Set	an	overall	recordable	incident	rate	(RIR)	of	0.05,	compared	 with	the	US	average	of	0.4.	An	RIR	reflects	the	number	of	injury	 cases	that	required	medical	treatment	beyond	basic	first	aid. Pride and passion characterize what   we heard in the words of Microsoft  employees around the globe. Pride in  their personal contributions and those   of the company, passion for the work   they each do every day, and a sense of  how it contributes to a higher purpose.  This collective experience—voiced by  the employees—contributed to  Microsoft being named the number   one Worlds Best Multinational  Workplace by Great Place to Work. Susan Lucas-Conwell, CEO, Great Place to Work  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  52  Citizenship at Microsoft About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly See GRI Index for more     Our commitments for FY13 include 	Continuing to optimize our pay-for-performance culture 	Offering learning and development to meet future business needs, support  workforce agility, and enhance change-management capabilities 	Advancing efforts to increase diversity in senior-level positions, with a focus   on racial minorities in the United States and women globally 	Enhancing managers skills for engaging a diverse workforce and creating  inclusive work environments  	Building	US	employees	awareness	of	and	confidence	in	the	value	of	their	 employee	benefits,	including	their	health	coverage FY12 performance highlights Goal: Roll out a new pay and performance management approach and  monitor feedback to remain a top employer of choice. Our new approach is in place, and were using surveys, listening tours,   and internal discussions to gather employee input. Goal: Support our new performance-management approach that rewards   business impact and how employees get their work done, and emphasizes  ongoing career development. We streamlined our processes to better collect peer feedback on employee   performance that helps inform more valuable career discussions. Goal: Increase executive leadership support and accountability in diversity   and inclusion. We developed a new framework to help leaders assess diversity and inclusion,  and foster an inclusive work environment.  Goal: Recruit, advance, and retain senior-level women globally. With the number of women pursuing technology careers in decline, this is an  industrywide challenge. Were working with partners and other organizations   to reverse this trend. Our people  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  53  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft 30% less Carbon intensity in FY12 In this section Impact of our operations Technology for the environment FY12 performance and   FY13 commitments Environment Were using our company as a living laboratory  to explore ways in which IT can help us drive  responsible environmental practices. This year,  our software and technology enabled us to make  more environmentally responsible choices and  better manage resources. Carbon  neutral in FY13 Progress toward an   ambitious goal  1.1B Kilowatt-hours of green   power purchased  50% less Energy consumed by Microsoft  modular data centers compared  with traditional data centers   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  54  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft Pressing environmental challenges require a collaborative, global  response. We can minimize the impact of our operations by better  conserving energy, managing resources, and setting aggressive  goals. This year, we set a companywide carbon neutrality goal,  which will begin with FY13. The goal will be accompanied by, and  achieved through, a new internal carbon fee. We are hopeful that  our goal will accelerate breakthroughs that will help our technology  and	products	become	more	efficient. Impact of our operations Our continued focus on reducing the climate impact of our opera- tions is helping minimize energy consumption across the company. Expanding employee action  	 Encouraged	business	groups	to	be	financially	responsible	for	  the cost of offsetting their carbon emissions through an internal  carbon fee. This fee is administered through our corporate  finance	department	and	applies	to	data	centers,	software	devel- opment	labs,	offices,	and	air	travel	emissions.	 	 Eliminated approximately 9.9 million miles of car travel through  employee commuting options at our Puget Sound, Washington,  offices—including	operating	our	own	free	commuter	bus	system. 	 With the help of our employees, diverted 95 percent of the waste  from dining facilities—and more than 80 percent of overall  waste—at our corporate campus. 	 Reduced emissions and waste across our European supply chain,  which resulted in receiving the Green Mover Award at the 2012  Irish Logistics and Transport Awards reception. 	 Educated employees about environmentally responsible practices  through supporting more than 650 employee volunteers in our  Sustainability Champions program.  	 Recognized employee environmental leadership initiatives   by presenting the Environmental Sustainability Action Award   to an employee or team every quarter of FY12.  Our carbon neutral  commitment, with   a cascaded carbon   fee, will increase our  focus on efficiency   and clean energy. Rob Bernard, Chief Environmental Strategist  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  55  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft Developed by The Green Grid nonprofit organization, power usage effectiveness  (PUE) is the ratio of total amount of power used by a computer data center  facility to the power delivered directly to the computing equipment. An ideal  PUE is 1.0. Microsoft averaged 1.40, while the current industry average is 1.8–1.9.  The Microsoft Chicago data center averaged a PUE of 1.07 in the container area  for the majority of the year. We aim to average 1.125 PUE or better next year. Minimizing data center impact 	 Saved resources by developing modular data centers that use   up to 50 percent less energy and consume only 1 percent of the  water of traditional data centers. 	 Reduced energy by using free-air cooling and operating our   data centers at higher temperatures.  	 Eliminated unnecessary components from servers within our  data	centers,	and	used	higher-efficiency	supplies,	converters,	 processors, and platforms. 	 Cooled our data center in San Antonio, Texas, using recycled  wastewater from the citys wastewater system. Improving efficiency 	 Helped reduce our reliance on electricity generated from coal  and other traditional energy sources by purchasing more than   1.1 billion kilowatt-hours of green power in FY12—the third most  of any US company, according to the US Environmental  Protection Agency. 	 Implemented a program that charges energy costs back to   specific	divisions	for	all	labs	in	Puget	Sound.	The	chargeback	  is motivating business divisions to save money by reducing  energy consumption. The Washington State Recyclers Association named   Microsoft 2012 Recycler of the Year.   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  56  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Working Responsibly 1.954B ML/year 2010 2.109B ML/year 2011 Total water usage (1 megaliter = 1 million liters)2 41,649 1,305,385 1,144,271 47,383 222,322 311,082 1,186,492 40,848 303,012 1,299,356 2009 1,502,736 2010 1,530,352 2011 CO2  equivalent emissions (metric tons)1 Scope 1: Direct emissions  (on-site emissions) Scope 2: Indirect emissions  (electricity consumption)  Scope 3: Indirect emissions  (air travel only) 1	 This	data	is	provided	on	a	calendar	year	basis	rather	than	a	fiscal	year	basis	to	facilitate	reporting	 	to	the	Carbon	Disclosure	Project. 2 Our data collection system does not yet track global water use. The number reported here   represents approximately 65 percent of our global portfolio by square footage.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  57  Citizenship at Microsoft About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly See GRI Index for more     Our commitments for FY13 include 	Achieving carbon neutrality and net-zero emissions for our data centers,   software	development	labs,	offices,	and	employee	air	travel	by	increasing	 energy	efficiency	and	purchasing	renewable	energy 	Implementing an internal carbon fee that will place a price on carbon, based  on current market pricing for renewable energy and carbon offsets, and   making	the	companys	business	divisions	financially	responsible	for	the	cost	  of their carbon emissions 	Sourcing more renewable power and continuing to implement our more   sustainable Generation 4 modular data center designs 	Rolling out an energy-management program to decrease energy use in the  buildings on our campus in Redmond  FY12 performance highlights Goal: Reduce our carbon emissions per unit of revenue by 30 percent   compared with 2007. We	met	our	goal	with	a	mix	of	energy-efficiency	measures	and	investments	in	 renewable	energy	and	carbon	reduction	projects	that	were	externally	verified. Goal: Improve our governance model to increase accountability to   corporate environmental goals. Among other efforts, were driving responsible business decisions by setting   an internal price on carbon, measuring emissions, and charging a fee to teams  responsible for those emissions. Goal: Enhance our global carbon footprint–tracking system to also track  water usage and waste. We adopted a cloud-based application that collects data from smart meters,  utilities, suppliers, waste processors, and internal business systems. Analyzing  this data will help us enhance our reporting processes and improve our   environmental performance. Reducing environmental impact in our operations   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  58  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft Collaboration and partnerships  	 Provided online services for hosting and sharing global environ- mental data by launching the Eye on Earth network—a cloud  computing-based network developed together with the  European	Environment	Agency	(EEA)	and	Esri.	 	 Enabled virtually anyone to access climate data from anywhere  through our launch of FetchClimate—a free, cloud-based climate  data–retrieval	service	created	in	partnership	with	the	EEA. 	 Partnered with the United Nations Environment Programme  (UNEP)	to	provide	energy-efficient,	modular	data	center	designs	 in order to enhance the performance of their new carbon-neutral  headquarters in Nairobi, Kenya.  	 Drove	energy	efficiency	in	technology	as	a	board	member	and	 participating contributor in several industry initiatives, including  The Green Grid, the Climate Savers Computing Initiative, and  the Global e-Sustainability Initiative. Technology for the environment Were advancing environmental sustainability in our product design  and	distribution—without	sacrificing	quality,	customer	safety,	or	 innovation. And through our work with others, were advancing the  dialogue about environmental sustainability.  Environmental benefits of our solutions 	 Made it easier for organizations to measure, manage, and track  their carbon footprint, total waste, and water usage with the new  Microsoft	Dynamics	AX	2012	enterprise	resource	planning	(ERP)	 solution—one	of	only	five	products	that	fulfill	the	requirements	  of	the	GRI	Certified	Software	and	Tools	Program. 	 A study found that moving Microsoft business applications to   the Microsoft cloud can help organizations reduce related energy  use and carbon emissions by at least 30 percent per user.  Microsoft is a founding member   of the ICT for Energy Efficiency  (ICT4EE) Forum.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  59  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report Setting the stage for carbon neutrality With governments slow to act on the accelerating climate change  challenge, it is essential that leadership to drive a low carbon economy  come	from	the	private	sector.	A	modest	number	of	large,	influential	 companies are stepping up to the plate, not only because they take  good corporate citizenship seriously, but because they understand  that operating sustainably also makes them more competitive and  more	profitable	over	the	long	term. Microsofts announcement that it will become carbon neutral in  FY13	exemplifies	the	kind	of	visionary	thinking	that	has	been	the	 companys hallmark for decades. And the fact that Microsoft   didnt make this a long-term aspirational goal, but a companywide   commitment to be met this fiscal year, is both bold and inspirational. How	Microsoft	plans	to	achieve	carbon	neutrality	reflects	the	companys	 innovative spirit. Ceres has long argued that without putting a price on  the carbon emissions responsible for global warming, as long as the  atmosphere is treated as an unlimited free resource, it will be virtually  impossible to slow the rate of climate change.  Rather than wait for policymakers to take this vital but elusive step,  Microsoft is putting an internal price on carbon that will make each  of its business divisions responsible for the cost of offsetting its  carbon	emissions,	either	through	energy	efficiency	or	by	payment	 into a central fund that will be used to source renewable energy or  purchase carbon offsets. This kind of green accountability could  well become a model for other companies looking to remain com- petitive in the carbon-constrained economy of the future. Working Responsibly Mindy Lubber, President, Ceres Ceres is a US-based coalition of investors,  environmental groups, and other public  interest organizations working with  companies to address sustainability  challenges such as climate change and  water scarcity.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  60  Citizenship at Microsoft About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly See GRI Index for more     Our commitments for FY13 include 	Providing	guidance	to	help	our	industry	develop	more	efficient	software 	Working	with	partners	on	customer	solutions	in	five	key	areas:	  greener IT, buildings, power and energy infrastructure, transportation,   and resource management 	Collaborating with industry peers to develop new metrics like Carbon Usage  Effectiveness and Water Usage Effectiveness that will help make data centers  as	efficient	as	possible 	Educating customers on how to dispose of old computers and devices   sustainably through industry partnerships, collection programs, and   outreach efforts FY12 performance highlights Goal: Create new energy-efficiency guidelines for Microsoft product groups. Windows	8	includes	advanced	energy-efficiency	features,	and	Windows	Azure	 enables developers to build applications that can be intelligently scaled to  reduce environmental impact. Goal: Develop new environmental guidelines for the software industry. We	released	our	most	comprehensive	framework	on	energy	efficiency,	and	 made it widely available to developers to prompt energy-smart applications. Goal: Work with partners to find solutions that allow cloud computing   to grow while reducing environmental impact. Were	joining	others	with	expertise	in	cloud	computing	to	develop	powerful	 tools that will give society a new level of insight into the resource requirements  and performance of complex systems. Microsoft technology for the environment  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  61  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft Human rights People all over the world exercise fundamental  human rights when they use our technology.  Respecting these rights is one way we help  people and businesses throughout the world  realize their full potential. In this section Affirming	our	commitment Privacy and data security Online safety Freedom of expression FY12 performance and   FY13 commitments Unifying our policies   and practices Internet Explorer 10s Do Not  Track feature  Funding research to disrupt  online human trafficking Championing free expression and  the right to privacy worldwide  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  62  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft Technology is changing the landscape of human rights. The  Internet and other communications technologies allow people all  over the world to share information and ideas. But technology  doesnt take sides. Technology users are also increasingly vulnerable  to privacy violations and other forms of exploitation. We partner  with organizations around the world to protect privacy, create a  safer online environment, and give people the means to make  their voices heard.  Affirming our commitment Our Global Human Rights Statement aligns with the United Nations  (UN)	Guiding	Principles	on	Business	and	Human	Rights.	Our	statement	 establishes a common set of principles we can infuse into our business  practices, with a focus on these four key priorities: 	 Creating opportunity: Our products, services, and devices bring the  power of technology to promote respect for human rights and help  shape the human rights agendas of governments and business. 	 Acting globally: Our commitment is based on internationally   recognized standards and respect for all human rights, including  civil, political, economic, social, and cultural rights. 	 Engaging strategically: We believe our business can most effectively  respect human rights through our presence in, rather than absence  from,	countries	that	present	significant	human	rights	risks.	 	 Promoting good governance: We will continue to model and  promote the rule of law and good governance around the world. Were also committed to upholding human rights in our global  supply chain and among our employees. See the Responsible   sourcing and Our people sections of the report for more information.  Technology has the fundamental  ability to positively impact   peoples lives. However, with this  comes the responsibility—to   our customers and the global  community—to operate our   business in a way that promotes  respect for human rights. Jean-Philippe Courtois, President  Microsoft International  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  63  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report Working Responsibly Making a statement in corporate citizenship With its Global Human Rights Statement, Microsoft has taken an  important step toward aligning its policies and practices with the  United	Nations	Guiding	Principles	on	Business	and	Human	Rights	(GPs).	 In	June	2011,	the	UN	Human	Rights	Council	unanimously	endorsed	 the GPs, which I developed over the course of six years of extensive  consultations,	research,	and	pilot	projects.	They	now	constitute	the	 most authoritative global human rights instrument linked to business.  Core features of the GPs have been incorporated into the updated  Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development  Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the new European Union  corporate social responsibility strategy, the International Finance  Corporations revised sustainability policy, and ISO 26000. The   GPs	also	enjoy	strong	support	from	stakeholder	groups	including	 business, workers organizations, and civil society.  The GPs lay out the duties of states to protect human rights, the  corporate responsibility to respect human rights, and the need for  remedy where harm does occur. In addition to calling on businesses  to adopt a human rights policy statement, the GPs provide the  means for them to know and show that they respect human rights.  These include a due diligence process to identify, prevent, mitigate,  and account for how they address adverse impacts on human  rights, and processes to enable the remediation of any such  impacts they cause or to which they contribute.  By reducing the risk that companies cause or contribute to human  rights harm, the GPs protect human rights, build trust between  companies and their internal and external stakeholders, and help  ensure that fragile global markets become socially more inclusive  and sustainable. John Ruggie, Former UN Special  Representative for Business and  Human Rights (2005–2011) John Ruggie is the Berthold Beitz  Professor in Human Rights and  International Affairs at Harvards  Kennedy School of Government and  faculty chair of the schools Corporate  Social Responsibility Initiative.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  64  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft Privacy and data security As people spend more time online and store more information   in the cloud, the risk of privacy and data security attacks continues  to rise. Ten years ago, our chairman Bill Gates launched a company- wide response with the Trustworthy Computing initiative, which  made privacy and data security our highest priorities in product  development.	We	continue	to	find	innovative	ways	to	protect	our	 customers privacy and keep their information secure. 	 Gave consumers the power to manage their privacy with the Do  Not Track setting turned on in Internet Explorer 10 in Windows 8.  The feature prevents advertisers from creating targeted ads based  on	a	consumers	web	surfing	habits.	 	 Revealed how peoples behaviors and attitudes can affect their  online reputations with a new survey of 5,000 consumers across  the United States, Canada, Germany, Ireland, and Spain. Released  in support of the international Data Privacy Day, the survey helps  people	understand	how	to	maintain	online	profiles	and	still	 protect their privacy.  	 Fueled development of new, creative ways to keep hackers from  exploiting software vulnerabilities. The Microsoft BlueHat Prize  contest offers innovative researchers in this area more than  $250,000 in cash and prizes. Its already inspired technologies  used in our Enhanced Mitigation Experience Toolkit, which helps  IT professionals protect their systems against common threats.  	 Promoted industrywide adoption of Microsoft Security  Development Lifecycle practices at the inaugural Security  Development Conference in Washington, D.C., which attracted  more than 240 attendees from 115 global organizations.  Microsofts Internet safety programs  are vital to our children, as theyre   the generation that will only know life  through technology. Our students  socialize, play games, communicate,  and find information through the  Internet, which puts them at risk.   Having an industry leader like Microsoft   teach our children how to stay safe  online sends a powerful message to   our school community. Cliona OKeeffe  Our Ladys Boys National School, Dublin, Ireland   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  65  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft 	 Helped lead a collaborative, international effort to make the  Internet a safer place for children as a founding member of   the European Union CEO Coalition on Child Online Safety. The  coalitions priorities include developing age-appropriate privacy  settings for online services, creating a more comprehensive  content rating system for video games, and removing content  that exploits children from the Internet. 	 Awarded six grants to North American researchers studying the  intersection	of	technology	and	commercial	child	sex	trafficking. Online safety A safer online environment is critical—particularly for children. We  partner with policymakers, advocacy groups, and other companies  in our industry on a range of online safety issues, from leading the  charge against online child exploitation to teaching people how to  help protect themselves on social networking sites.  	 Advanced	the	fight	against	online	child	pornography	by	making	 Microsoft PhotoDNA technology available at no charge to Internet  services companies, NGOs, and law enforcement. Developed in a  partnership between Microsoft Research and Dartmouth College,  the image-matching technology enables Internet service companies  to	find,	report,	and	eliminate	known	child	pornography	images	 from	their	networks	and	helps	law	enforcement	officers	more	 efficiently	identify	and	rescue	victims	and	bring	abusers	to	justice.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  66  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Working Responsibly Using	technology	to	fight	child	trafficking Technology	has	enabled	jaw-dropping	advancements	in	communi- cation, providing greater access to information and allowing individuals   to	work	more	efficiently	and	stay	better	connected.	But	it	has	also	  benefited	criminals—including	child	sex	traffickers	and	their	customers.	 Were working to help create a safe computing environment for  children and ensuring that Microsoft technologies are not used   to conduct crime. In 2012, Microsoft Research and the Microsoft  Digital Crimes Unit collaborated to begin understanding how we  can	contribute	to	the	fight	against	human	trafficking—a	$32	billion	 a year industry. We awarded six grants totaling $185,000 to research  teams at universities across North America interested in better  understanding the role technology plays in the problem. Armed with better data, I believe real breakthroughs are possible  for helping disrupt the dynamics that fuel the child sex trade,   said Samantha Doerr, program manager for the Microsoft Digital  Crimes Unit. The research will cover a range of topics from investigating how  technology facilitates the recruiting, buying, and selling of victims  to	understanding	the	benefits	and	obstacles	of	technology	on	law	 enforcement	efforts	to	combat	human	trafficking.	Collecting	data	  is	just	the	first	step.	Ultimately,	we	want	to	make	a	difference	by	 developing	technologies	to	help	thwart	traffickers	and	those	who	 do business with them.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  67  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft Respecting human rights through engagement Many in the human rights community question when its   right for a business to leave (or refuse to enter) a country   on human rights grounds.  While we respect other companies decisions to withdraw from  certain markets, we generally believe that engaging in difficult  environments holds the greatest promise for promoting  human rights. From our perspective, the critical challenge is  determining how to operate within these environments, so  that citizens derive the same benefits from ICT products as  people in other, freer countries.  Our approach takes many forms. We engage with local   stakeholder groups to help shape our human rights policies  in specific communities. We also use our size and leadership  to influence government behaviors. Most importantly, we  perform due diligence before making decisions, helping us  minimize the human rights risks of our actions.  The Global Network Initiative is an international coalition of technology  companies, civil society organizations, investors, and academics dedicated to  safeguarding human rights in the face of restrictive governments. Read more  about its efforts to advance Internet freedom and online privacy. Freedom of expression Internet freedom may seem like a given to some, but for many  people around the world, its not that simple. In FY11, we adopted   a Freedom of Expression policy to guide our decision making when  approached	by	governments	that	want	to	filter	or	censor	Internet	 content. This year, we continued to support the free exchange of  ideas and information online through our membership in the  Global	Network	Initiative	(GNI).	 	 Championed free expression and the right to privacy in the   information	and	communications	technologies	(ICT)	sector	  as a member of the GNI.  	 In FY12, a third-party assessor completed an independent review  of our policies and procedures for protecting online speech   from government intervention. The GNI is using our assessment  as a learning tool to improve its implementation guidelines. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, Microsoft is   committed to respecting all of the human rights described in:  	 The Universal Declaration of Human Rights 	 The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 	 The International Covenant on Economic, Social, and   Cultural Rights 	 The International Labour Organization Declaration   on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  68  Citizenship at Microsoft About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly See GRI Index for more     Our commitments for FY13 include 	Maintaining a comprehensive privacy program to minimize customer risk,   foster compliance, and build privacy into our products and services 	Strengthening consumer privacy and online safety by partnering with   governments, NGOs, industry partners, and law enforcement 	Hosting	the	fifth	US-China	Internet	Industry	Forum,	bringing	together	  leaders from government, industry, and NGOs to discuss issues such as   free expression 	Advancing our work with industry, law enforcement, government,   and	nonprofit	partners	to	fight	cybercrime,	online	child	exploitation,	  and	human	trafficking 	Continuing our sponsorship of the Personal Democracy Forum, which   shares knowledge on using technology in campaigns and civic organizing  	Upholding our commitment to human rights as outlined in our Global Human  Rights Statement, and annually communicating our progress 	Identifying, preventing, and mitigating the human rights risks associated with  our products and services 	Conducting a GNI Phase III Assessment, which looks beyond reviewing internal  policies to protect human rights, to assessing outcomes FY12 performance highlights    Goal: Raise awareness of safer online habits and practices. We continued our support of global campaigns such as Safer Internet Day,   Data Privacy Day, and National Cybersecurity Awareness Month to raise   awareness	among	consumers,	government	officials,	and	organizations. Goal: Develop strong privacy and safety public policy frameworks in the  United States, Europe, and emerging markets worldwide. We worked with governments and partners in countries such as Turkey,   China,	Singapore,	and	Colombia	to	ensure	proposed	legislation	was	flexible,	 principles-based,	and	facilitated	trans-border	data	flows.	We	also	collaborated	 with governments, organizations, and industry peers in the United States   and European Union to help craft legislative proposals on data protection. Goal: Engage with multilateral organizations to create strong and consistent  global frameworks for privacy and security policy. We	participated	in	developing	the	Asia-Pacific	Economic	Cooperation	(APEC)	 Cross-Border Privacy Rules, which were released in 2012. Developed through  public/private collaboration, the rules promote data-privacy practices for   companies doing business in APEC economies. Goal: Partner to fight online crime. We	assisted	law	enforcement	worldwide	in	their	fight	against	online	child	  pornography by making Microsoft PhotoDNA technology available for free. Goal: Continue our active participation in the Global Network Initiative (GNI). We completed Phase II of the GNI assessment, which focused on implementing  and observing internal processes, advancing our commitment to freedom of  expression and privacy on the Internet. Human rights  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  69  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft In this section Hardware production Conflict	minerals Expanding our efforts FY12 performance and   FY13 commitments 100% Suppliers required to abide   by our Vendor Code of Conduct $1.5  billion+ Worldwide spending with  women-owned, minority-owned,  or veteran-owned suppliers Responsible sourcing We expect our tens of thousands of suppliers to uphold  the same high standards of citizenship to which we hold  ourselves. Those standards play an important part in   our supplier selection and retention decisions. By setting  clear expectations, and by sharing experiences and best  practices with our suppliers, we create incentives for   them to promote the health, safety, and well-being of  their workers and the communities where they operate.   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  70  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft As a global company with supplier relationships around the world,  Microsoft recognizes the importance of working with suppliers com- mitted to responsible business practices. As the foundation of our  commitment, all companies doing business with Microsoft must  agree to abide by our Vendor Code of Conduct, which sets out our  expectations about ethical business practices, employment practices,  and compliance with environmental and worker safety requirements. Microsoft is committed to the fair treatment  and safety of workers at manufacturers  contracted to our company, and we use   a risk-based approach to promote safe   and healthy working and living conditions,  engaging directly with our suppliers to build  their capabilities in these important areas.   We have invested heavily in a robust supply  chain social and environmental accountability  program intended to verify that suppliers  meet our Vendor Code of Conduct. Brian Tobey, Corporate Vice President   Manufacturing, Supply Chain, Information and Services  We also share experiences and best practices with our suppliers   to encourage them to improve their business practices. We work  collaboratively with our suppliers to verify that they are complying  with the Vendor Code of Conduct and to enhance their ability to  find	and	fix	problems	that	do	sometimes	occur.	If	we	find	a	supplier	 is unwilling to follow the Vendor Code of Conduct or address such  problems, we will take—and we have taken—disciplinary action up  to and including terminating supplier contracts. There is always  room for improvement, but we are encouraged by the cooperation  we	find	among	our	suppliers	and	many	companies	across	the	 electronics industry to tackle existing challenges and address new  issues as they arise.  Vendor Code of Conduct   The Microsoft Vendor Code of Conduct (VCC) sets our   expectations for ethical business and employment practices  among all companies doing business with Microsoft,   including overseas suppliers and service providers. Our   VCC requires, among other things:    Fair, legal wages under humane conditions   A safe and healthy work environment   A workplace free of harassment, discrimination, or abuse   Freedom of association   No forced or child labor    Environmental and regulatory compliance   Business, legal, and anti-corruption protections  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  71  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft escalated to Microsoft senior management and the suppliers  were placed on restricted status with no new Microsoft business  awarded until they had resolved the issues.  	 We	identified	one	instance	of	under-aged	labor	at	each	of	two	  supplier sites, and one instance at a site of a prospective supplier  with which we declined to do business. The cause of these violations  was	vulnerabilities	in	the	suppliers	age	verification	procedures,	 which	did	not	detect	the	misuse	of	borrowed	identification.	Both	 cases were escalated to senior management, and the supplier   was placed on restricted status with no new Microsoft business  awarded	until	the	problem	was	resolved.	We	verified	they	had	taken	 corrective action—including immediately ceasing employment of  the	minors	and	providing	the	minors	a	safe	journey	home—and	 verified	they	had	taken	appropriate	steps	to	make	their	identity	  validation controls more robust. In one case, we helped the supplier  implement facial recognition software to screen new employees   and	substantially	reduce	the	risk	of	minors	using	false	identification	 papers to get work. Hardware production To meet our own and others expectations to make our products  with integrity, Microsoft operates a Social and Environmental  Accountability	(SEA)	program	specifically	focused	on	suppliers	  that produce our hardware products and packaging materials.  Raising supplier accountability expectations 	 Microsofts hardware and packaging suppliers are required to  provide Microsoft and third-party auditors on-site access to conduct  audits and assessments of conformance with our Vendor Code of  Conduct. Microsofts factory managers and SEA team regularly visit  supplier factories to assess living and working conditions. The facto- ries that assemble Microsoft products receive third-party compliance  audits at least once a year. The suppliers we contract to make com- ponents for our products also receive SEA team assessments and  third-party	audits	based	on	their	risk	level.	All	of	the	final	assemblers	 of our hardware and all high- and medium-risk component suppliers  have undergone human rights pre-contracting and ongoing screen- ing.	In	FY12,	98	significant	hardware	suppliers	underwent	human	 rights risk assessment and monitoring.  	 Overall,	monitoring	found	no	instances	of	human	trafficking	or	 interfering with workers freedom of association. Monitoring  detected eight non-conformances of the non-discrimination  provisions of our Code of Conduct. It also found seven instances  of concern regarding suppliers forced labor prevention pro- cesses, including protecting workers ability to refuse overtime  work	and	to	have	easy	access	to	their	personal	identification	 documents that workers need for travel. All of these issues were  We seek worker input to help  target our supplier engagement  efforts for improvements where  they matter most.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  72  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft Listening to workers 	 Enhanced supplier management capabilities to better understand  and resolve workers concerns through an updated workers  grievance process, including an anonymous hotline to capture  worker concerns and worker interviews conducted by the Fair  Labor	Association	(FLA).	 	 Based on an initial assessment in 2011, we updated the model in  FY12 with a bigger focus on promoting improvements in worker/ management communication. Worker surveys and interviews  conducted by the FLA provided key data to support our collab- orative efforts with suppliers on issues the workers themselves  most want to see addressed. Promoting a safe working environment 	 Shared experiences and best practices with suppliers on a  number of workplace safety topics, including management of  hazardous and toxic substances, electrical safety, emergency  response plans, combustible dust, and use of personal protective  equipment at a supplier forum in Shenzhen, China.  	 Directly engaged priority suppliers based on risk and compliance  records to promote improved factory conditions and worker  treatment at those suppliers sites. We sent a team of Microsoft  senior management and health and safety representatives   to China to meet with those suppliers, support their efforts to  implement corrective actions, and help them build capabilities   to address future issues.  Improving health and living conditions 	 Launched	a	worker	community	project	to	support	supplier	 efforts to improve living conditions, quality of life, and develop  career growth opportunities for workers. Our improvement   projects	include	providing	cleaner	dormitories,	workshops,	and	 canteen areas; offering more culturally diverse foods; organizing  field	trips	for	workers	to	give	them	a	better	work/life	balance;	 enhancing management and worker communications; and  developing career paths for workers. Community Technology Centers  teach people in supplier com- munities how to use computers  and the Internet, explore new  careers, further their education,  participate in community activi- ties, and develop job-related  technology skills.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  73  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft 	 Supported strong and effective disclosure requirements by publicly  signing on to comments on the US governments proposed  Dodd-Frank	regulations	on	conflict	minerals.	 	 Participated in the Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals  Trade	(PPA),	a	joint	initiative	among	governments,	companies,	and	 civil	society	to	explore	potential	supply	chain	solutions	to	conflict	 minerals challenges in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and  the Great Lakes region of Central Africa. See the Environment section to learn how we work with our   partners to reduce environmental impact.  Conflict minerals We proactively support industry and multistakeholder efforts   to	move	toward	a	conflict	mineral–free	electronics	supply	chain.	 	 Continue to examine our supply chain to identify each component  used in our products containing tin, gold, tantalum, or tungsten   and the suppliers of these components. We are educating these  suppliers	regarding	the	conflict	minerals	issue	and	ask	suppliers	  to	identify	each	smelter	or	refinery	they	use	and	verify	that	the	  minerals	in	these	components	do	not	come	from	implicated	conflict	 mineral zones.  	 We seek to align our efforts with the Organisation for Economic  Co-operation	and	Development	(OECD)	Due	Diligence	Guidance	 for	Responsible	Supply	Chains	of	Minerals	from	Conflict-Affected	 and High-Risk Areas and the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and  related	US	Securities	and	Exchange	Commission	(SEC)	regulations.	  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  74  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft Expanding our efforts This year, we enhanced our responsible sourcing efforts in many ways:  	 Supported woman-owned, minority-owned, or veteran-owned  suppliers with more than $1.5 billion in worldwide spending in FY12.  This puts us among the top 15 companies globally in this category.  	 Explored ways to promote improvement in our suppliers social   performance by launching a new reporting program. Under the  program, we asked approximately 20 key hardware suppliers and  service providers to use several Global Reporting Initiative indicators  to document how their programs and policies meet our standards.  	 Provided people of all ages and abilities low-cost access to   technology by partnering with suppliers to build Community  Technology	Centers	(CTCs)	in	their	communities.	To	date,	  15 suppliers in 13 countries host CTCs in their facilities. Microsoft production supplier country locations USA Brazil Israel Italy UK France Germany Malaysia Singapore  Thailand Vietnam Philippines China Japan Korea Taiwan  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  75  Citizenship at Microsoft About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly See GRI Index for more     Our commitments for FY13 include 	Continuing to enhance our programs to verify our suppliers adhere to our  Vendor Code of Conduct 	Consider further enhancing the transparency of our supplier auditing processes  on labor and human rights issues 	Supporting	industry	efforts	to	identify,	reduce,	and	ultimately	eliminate	conflict	 minerals from the technology supply  FY12 performance highlights Goal: Increase transparency of our supply chain management. We met with institutional and socially responsible investors and briefed   nongovernmental	organizations	concerned	with	issues	such	as	conflict	  minerals in Africa and the environment in China. Goal: Work with hardware suppliers to evaluate the potential use of conflict   minerals, thereby supporting the technology industrys ultimate aim   of developing a conflict mineral–free supply chain. We identify the materials used in our products and ask our hardware suppliers   to	identify	the	smelters	and	refineries	they	use	to	help	identify	potential	sources	 of	conflict	minerals.	 Goal: Developed new practices to promote supplier adherence to our  Vendor Code of Conduct, and to apply the code consistently across   our business units. We strengthened our anti-corruption screening program for our entire supplier  database and developed new ethics training programs for our suppliers. We   also enhanced how we apply our Vendor Code of Conduct to strategic business  process suppliers, such as customer support call centers. Responsible sourcing  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  76  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft 9.5/10 Our rating from  GovernanceMetrics International  In this section Corporate governance Maintaining strong practices   and performance Public policy engagement Compliance FY12 performance and   FY13 commitments Governance Public trust in corporations depends in large   part on the basic aspects of business character:  integrity, values, and transparency. A strong   and steady core is the bedrock of both right  action and good business.  100% Independence of directors  serving on board committees Zero Number of contributions made  to Super PACs On the list of the Worlds Most   Ethical Companies  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  77  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft Sound principles, practices, and leaders are critical to good business.  Accountability at the highest levels and ethical conduct throughout  the company are central to earning and maintaining the publics trust. Corporate governance  Strong corporate governance builds trust, creates internal checks  and balances, and deepens management accountability. Engaging proactively with stakeholders 	 Updated investors on developments in our corporate governance  framework with annual letter from members of the boards  Governance and Nominating Committee.  	 Engaged on a biannual basis with investors, including public  pension funds and socially responsible investors, which collectively  held approximately 35 percent of our outstanding shares, and  delivered a summary of investor feedback to the board.  Maintaining high standards for  business conduct helps businesses  demonstrate their values. From  our actions in the public sphere   to our decisions in the boardroom,  we aim to consistently apply  exacting principles to chart   a clear course, guided by our  accountability to the public.  Brad Smith, Executive Vice President and General Counsel  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  78  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft To contribute to the development of best practices, we partnered with a variety   of organizations, including the Conference Board Governance Center,   Stanford Institutional Investors Forum, the Society of Corporate Secretaries   and Governance Professionals, the Millstein Center for Corporate Governance  and Performance, and the Council of Institutional Investors. Managing risk at the board level Created a more effective and efficient oversight structure   by reorganizing the boards committees, reducing the number   of	committees	from	five	to	four.	 	 Incorporated the Antitrust Compliance Committee into the  Regulatory and Public Policy Committee, which will continue to  oversee our compliance with competition law as well as additional  legal, regulatory, and compliance matters such as human rights,  environmental sustainability, privacy and security, business   operations risks, public policy, and corporate citizenship.  	 Transferred the responsibilities of the Finance Committee for tax  planning and compliance, investment policies, and investment  risk management to the Audit Committee. The board has assumed  the remainder of the Finance Committees responsibilities related to  capital structure and capital deployment. 	 The	board	appointed	two	independent	directors:	John	W.	 Thompson,	CEO	of	Virtual	Instruments;	and	Stephen	J.	Luczo,	 chairman, president, and CEO of Seagate Technology PLC.   Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  79  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft Number of directors Percentage of independent  directors 11 81% Number of board committees Independence of directors serving  on board committees 4 100% Separate chairman and CEO  Lead independent director Yes Yes Annual board, committee, and   individual member self-evaluations Number of board meetings held   in fiscal year 2012 Yes 8 Shares of Microsoft common   stock outstanding1 Registered holders  of common stock1  8,383,396,575 128,992 Key governance data Maintaining strong practices and performance 	 Received a 9.5 out of 10 global market rating from  GovernanceMetrics International for practices and performance  (as	of	July	9,	2012).	 	 Received best possible ratings from the Institutional Shareholder  Services, Inc. Governance Risk Indicators in all governance   risk categories, including board, audit, compensation, and   shareholder rights. 	 Included on the Ethisphere Institutes list of the Worlds Most  Ethical Companies.   	 Awarded Best overall governance, compliance, and ethics   (large	cap)	honor	at	the	Corporate Secretary magazine 2011  Corporate Governance Awards. 	 Ranked third on CR Magazines list of 100 Best Corporate  Citizens, selected from all companies in the Russell 1000  Index. 1	 As	of	July	18,	2012.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  80  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft Public policy engagement  Corporate participation in the public policy process is an important  means of enhancing shareholder value and is fundamental to free  and democratic societies. Our engagement in the public policy  process is grounded in and guided by our unwavering commitment  to strong corporate governance—centered on transparency,  accountability, and compliance. 	 We engage in public policy discussions that relate to our business,  and	also	update	our	public	policy	agenda	every	year	to	reflect	 changes in the policy environment and our business. Our FY12 policy  agenda focused on Accelerating Economic Growth, Addressing Social  Challenges, and Working Responsibly in the Information Economy. 	 We	regularly	file	reports	that	detail	our	advocacy	activities	in	com- pliance with regulations and our commitment to transparency. Our  disclosures include consultant fees, lobbying expenses, and  trade-association dues related to advocacy. 	 We are a member of a number of trade associations and business  coalitions that help us work with industry peers to advance issues  that affect our business and society. A full list of the trade associations  and business coalitions supported by our Legal and Corporate   Affairs group is available on our Citizenship website. For a complete  statement on our involvement with trade associations, please see   the Principles and Policies for Guiding Microsofts Participation in   the Public Policy Process in the United States.    US public policy advocacy Federal State $6,750,000 FY10 $6,912,000 FY11 $4,870,000 FY10 $6,870,000 FY11 $7,559,000 FY12 $7,486,000 FY12  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  81  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft Microsoft Political Action Committee political contributions State candidate contributions Federal candidate contributions Non-candidate  committee contributions $317,950 $238,550 $505,800 $451,000 $118,210 $728,000 $151,572 $461,000 $472,500 $887,160 2009 $1,472,350 2010 $1,085,072 2011 Adhering to strict principles and policies 	 Clear principles govern our engagement in the political process  in the United States.  	 Political	spending	will	reflect	the	companys	interests	and	be	  used to further its public policy agenda and not the personal  agenda	of	individual	officers,	directors,	or	employees.	 	 We do not make corporate contributions to any noncandidate   or nonparty political committees organized under section   527 of the Internal Revenue Code, which are formed solely   to	influence	elections. 	 No campaign contributions are given in anticipation of, in   recognition	of,	or	in	return	for	an	official	act. 	 Reaffirmed	our	2010	stance	on	not	making	independent	political	 expenditures or electioneering communications, as permitted  under the US Supreme Courts Citizens United ruling. 	 For the last calendar year, the Microsoft Political Action Committee  (MSPAC)	made	political	contributions	totaling	$1,085,072.	In	  addition to MSPACs contributions, our company as a whole also  contributed $151,572 to state and local political campaigns in   calendar year 2011. We do not support political candidates or   campaigns outside the United States.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  82  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Citizenship at Microsoft Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report Working Responsibly Setting the standard for transparency Corporate participation in politics and funding of elections has  become a hotly debated issue. From newspaper editorials to grass- roots campaigns to investor inquiries, companies are under scrutiny  for their political spending and lobbying, with widespread fears that  they	are	exerting	undue	influence.	As	Microsoft	has	demonstrated,	 the way to address such fears is transparency.  Microsoft engages government agencies and representatives   on public policy issues crucial to its business, guided by a set of  principles and practices with transparency, responsibility, and  accountability at its core. When	asked	How	much	influence	is	your	company	exerting	in	the	 political process, and how do you do it? or What is your agenda?  Microsoft provides answers, posts them publicly, and updates them  annually.	Microsoft	provides	specifics	about	its	lobbying	and	politi- cal spending, with details on how much is spent on each activity.  Company participation is guided by a public policy agenda, which  openly spells out the issues important to its business.  Any company involved in the political process can face controversy.  For example, it is always confusing to stakeholders when trade  associations claiming they speak for their members, such as the US  Chamber of Commerce, take positions counter to Microsofts on  issues like the environment or diversity. This makes it all the more  important for Microsoft to consistently declare what it stands for  and differentiate itself from any backward-looking trade association  statements or lobbying positions. Such a transparent, responsible,  accountable approach sets the gold standard.  Microsoft is a leader in showing how corporate participation in   politics can be consistent with corporate responsibility. Timothy Smith, Senior Vice President   Walden Asset Management Timothy Smith is senior vice president and  director of ESG shareowner engagement   of Walden Asset Management. In 2007,   the Ethisphere Institute named him one   of the 100 most influential people in  business ethics.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  83  About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly Citizenship at Microsoft 	 As	of	June	30,	2012,	all	but	three	cases	under	Canadian	jurisdiction	 have been settled. All overcharge class actions in the United States  were dismissed or resolved. The only remaining actions are in  Canada, where the lead case was dismissed by the appeals court  and ruling is now pending before the Canadian Supreme Court.  	 For more information, see the Note 17—Contingencies section   of our 2012 Annual Report.  Training employees 	 In FY12, we trained more than 99.6 percent of our employees on  our Standards of Business Conduct, which addresses topics such  as	anti-corruption,	conflicts	of	interest,	and	financial	integrity.	 	 Every year, we use a survey to measure employee satisfaction  with ethical conduct training. The FY12 survey showed that  employees scored the program 176 out of 200. 	 We promote employee awareness of business conduct policies  through MS Policy, an online tool and central resource for all   relevant information. Compliance  Businesses have a responsibility to operate in full accordance with  the law, and we have zero tolerance for failure to adhere to our  internal compliance policies and practices.  Competing responsibly within our industry 	 We comply with antitrust rulings and apply principles that  support innovation, choice, and opportunities for developers  regarding new products and services.  	 For information about acquisitions or our response to rulings,   see our 2012 Annual Report. Ongoing litigation At any given time, there may be a range of legal actions   pending against a company. Actions currently pending against  Microsoft include: 	 Ongoing litigation with Motorola Mobility in several countries.  	 Approximately 60 other patent infringement cases. 	 In	July	2012,	a	trial	court	granted	Microsofts	motion	dismissing	 Novell, Inc.s case against us. Novell has appealed this decision.  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  84  Citizenship at Microsoft About this Report Serving Communities Our Company Working Responsibly See GRI Index for more     Our commitments for FY13 include 	Maintaining or increasing dialogue between stakeholders and the company 	Engaging in cross-industry forums to help us identify and contribute to the  development of best practices 	Continuing to enhance our corporate governance principles and policies   to serve the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders 	Implementing the regulatory and disclosure requirements adopted under   the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 	Upholding our unwavering commitment to strong corporate governance   when participating in the public policy process 	Maintaining leadership in corporate accountability, transparency, integrity,   and responsibility by revising our principles, policies, and practices, as needed FY12 performance highlights Goal: Maintain or increase dialogue between shareholders and the company. We updated investors on developments in corporate governance with an   annual letter from the Governance and Nominating Committee of the board.   We engaged biannually with a group of investors who collectively hold   approximately 35 percent of outstanding shares. We released a new installment  of our director interview series featuring members of our board. Goal: Engage in cross-industry forums to help us identify and contribute   to the development of best practices. We engaged with a variety of organizations, including the Conference Board  Governance Center, Stanford Institutional Investors Forum, the Society of  Corporate Secretaries and Governance Professionals, the Millstein Center for  Corporate Governance and Performance, and the Council of Institutional Investors. Goal: Continue to enhance our corporate governance principles and policies   to serve the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders. We	made	our	board	oversight	structure	more	efficient	by	reorganizing	the	 boards	committees,	reducing	the	number	of	committees	from	five	to	four. Goal: Implement the regulatory and disclosure requirements adopted  under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. In 2009, we voluntarily submitted our executive compensation to a shareholder  advisory vote, which received overwhelming support. At the 2011 Annual Meeting,  nearly 99 percent of the votes cast supported our say-on-pay resolution. Governance  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  85  About this Report Working Responsibly Serving Communities Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Additional reporting This report was released at the same time as the Microsoft FY12 Annual Report.  These reports complement each other and together provide a full picture of  Microsofts	performance	over	the	past	fiscal	year.	 In addition to these reports, we report on our actions in many other ways  throughout the year. These include: 	 Ongoing direct dialogue with a broad range of stakeholder groups, as well   as with industry and issue-advocacy organizations 	 Updates to our Citizenship website, blogs, Facebook, and Twitter	to	reflect	 recent initiatives and progress 	 Research	and	white	papers	on	specific	issues 	 Economic impact data and hundreds of local impact stories through the  Microsoft Local Impact Map  	 An annual submission to the Carbon	Disclosure	Project  	 This report demonstrates our commitment to the   UN Millennium Development Goals  Feedback We welcome your feedback on this report and on the Microsoft Citizenship  approach. Please email your comments to mcitizen@microsoft.com or write   to us at the following address: Microsoft Corporate Citizenship  Microsoft Corporation  One Microsoft Way  Redmond, WA 98052, US Reporting year  Unless	otherwise	stated,	information	in	this	report	is	related	to	fiscal	year	2012	 (July	1,	2011,	to	June	30,	2012).	 Scope As part of Microsofts global citizenship initiative, this report covers Microsoft  nonfinancial	performance	and	impact	in	FY12	across	our	global	operations.	  The report covers our material citizenship issues based on: 	 Internal assessments 	 Ongoing engagement with stakeholders ranging from socially responsible  investors to our own employees 	 Requests for information by corporate responsibility rating agencies  To improve this years report, we conducted a gap analysis comparing the   information provided in our FY11 Citizenship Report with the information  requests we received from stakeholders during FY12. We	relied	on	the	Global	Reporting	Initiatives	(GRI)	Sustainability	Reporting	 Guidelines to help determine relevant content and metrics. Please see our   standalone GRI Index online for more detailed data and other information.   When relevant, this report provides links to data in the GRI Index for more   detailed information.  About this Report  Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report  86  About this Report Working Responsibly Serving Communities Citizenship at Microsoft Our Company Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect  the protection of internationally proclaimed  human rights; and Our people, Human rights,  Responsible sourcing Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit  in human rights abuses. Our people, Human rights,  Responsible sourcing Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom  of association and the effective recognition of the  right to collective bargaining; Responsible sourcing Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced  and compulsory labor; Responsible sourcing Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and  Responsible sourcing Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in  respect of employment and occupation. Our people,  Responsible sourcing Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precau- tionary approach to environmental challenges; Environment Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote  greater environmental responsibility; and  Environment,  Responsible sourcing Principle 9: encourage the development and dif- fusion of environmentally friendly technologies.  Environment Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corrup- tion in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.  Responsible sourcing,  Governance United Nations Global  Compact Microsofts commitment to the United Nations Global Compact  advances our mission to help people and businesses around the  world realize their full potential.  Since endorsing the Global Compact in 2006, we continue to   view it as an important guide for Microsoft. The Global Compacts   10 principles related to human rights, labor, the environment, and  anti-corruption align with our companys business strategies,   practices, policies, and operations. Our involvement supports our  efforts to demonstrate accountability and ongoing improvement  across the broad range of citizenship topics. This 2012 Citizenship Report serves as Microsofts annual Global  Compact Communication on Progress. The following table describes  the location of information about each principle in this report.   This document is provided as-is. Information and views expressed   in this document, including URL and other Internet website references,  may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any  intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and   use this document for your internal, reference purposes.  2012 Microsoft. All rights reserved.    Microsoft, Bing, BizSpark, Dynamics, Microsoft Dynamics   CRM Online, Excel, Office 365, Hotmail, Internet Explorer,   Kinect, Lync, Mediaroom, MSN, OneNote, PhotoDNA, PowerPoint,  SharePoint, Silverlight, SkyDrive, SQL Azure, SQL Server, Visual  Studio, Windows, Windows Azure, Windows Intune, Windows Live,  Windows Server, Xbox 360, Xbox LIVE, Surface, and Skype   are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies. All other   trademarks are property of their respective owners. 098-117576 Microsoft 2012 Citizenship Report