Address by Chairman Address by President 02 04 Address by Leaders  Green Vision Green Manufacturing Green Products Green Industry Green Performance 37 38 44 48 49 Environment Management Company Profile Brief Introduction Corporate Leadership Organization Structure Corporate Vision, Goal and Fulfillment of the New-Round  Development Strategy, 2010-2015 Key Performance Indicators in 2011 06 10 12 13 14 Social Responsibility Management Responsibility Governance Responsibility Promotion Responsibility Communications  16 17 18 Overall Donation  Community Relationships Social Contribution 63 64 66 Social Performance Development Platform for Employment Remuneration and Welfare Employee Safety and Protection Communication with Employees 53 56 58 60 Employee Performance Priorities of Social Responsibility  Foundations for Social Responsibility Corporate Governance Overall Risk Management Audit System Anti-Corruption Campaign 23 23 24 26 Honest Business Supply Chain Performance Develop with Suppliers Provide Customers with Quality Service 69 72 Direct Economic Performance Merger and Reorganization Major Projects  Technology and Management Innovations  Technical Exchanges and Cooperation  29 29 30 32 33 Value Creation Appendixes Highlights 2011  GRI Indicators Feedback Form 80 86 87 Contents Overview About This Report This is the fourth corporate social responsibility report published  by Baosteel Group Corporation (hereinafter referred to as Bao- steel or the Corporation).  The report has been compiled in accordance with the Guidelines  for Social Responsibility Performance by Central Enterprises  (Document No. 2008-01) and Outline for Implementation of Har- monious Development Strategy in the 12th Five-Year-Plan Period  issued by the State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administra- tion Commission of the State Council, the Sustainability Reporting  Guidelines (G3 version) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the  10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact, the Guide- lines of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences for the Compila- tion of Social Responsibility Reports by Chinese Enterprises, and  Baosteels practical conditions. Coverage Unless otherwise specified, this Report mainly describes Bao- steels corporate governance, value creation, environment man- agement, employees, community and supply chain from January 1  to December 31, 2011. This Report covers the business segments  of iron and steel, secondary steel processing, resource develop- ment and logistics, engineering technology services, production  services, coal chemical industry, and financial investment. Language and Format This Report is published in Chinese and English. If the two ver- sions differ, the Chinese version shall prevail. If you have any  question about this Report, please contact us at: Corporate Communication Dept.  Baosteel Group Corporation Room 2105, Baosteel Tower, 370 Pudian Road, Pudong New Area,  Shanghai, 200122 China Tel: 86 21 58350000-1064 Fax: 86 21 68403773 Email: csr@baosteel.com This report is published in the formats of print and electronic doc- ument. The electronic document is available at Baosteel website  (http://www.baosteel.com).   The year 2011 marks the beginning of the 12th Five- year Plan period as well as the start of Baosteels new- round plan. In the context of profound changes in econom- ic situations at home and abroad, the world steel industry  has entered the era of meager profit where enterprises  gain low profit at high cost. In face of volatile economic cir- cumstances and increasingly intense market competition,  all staff of Baosteel presses ahead with joint efforts and  support of all stakeholders, achieving the goal to maintain  the Corporations leading position in the industry, with the  annual total revenue amounting to RMB316.2 billion and  the profit totaling RMB18.2 billion. Baosteel has been listed  among the Fortune Global 500 for eight consecutive years,  ranked 212th in 2010. Recognized and was as one of the  worlds most admired companies.Moreover Baosteel won  the second Chinese Industry Award and the sixth China  Charity Award.  With a years painstaking efforts, we have made the  aforesaid achievements, and have gained a deeper un- derstanding of fulfilling our social responsibility towards  the future. In the new era of meager profit, Baosteel puts  forward the corporate vision to become the leader of  steel technology, the driver of green industry, the corpo- rate model for common development of employees and  enterprises, which embodies our thoughts and reflections  on our value and responsibility and encourages us to fulfill  our responsibilities in day-to-day operation. In 2011, with  regard to strategic deployment, Baosteel continued to  implement the national industrial development program,  steadily pushed forward strategic adjustment and gained  initial success in this regard; in order to maintain its edge  in technologies, Baosteel established a national key labora- tory on auto-use steel development and application, set  up the Baosteel-Australia Joint R&D Center, and success- fully put high-induction oriented silicon steel into use in  major national projects. As for production and operation,  Baosteel improved the asset performance and was commit- ted to building an operation mechanism catering to cus- tomers. In respect of environment management, Baosteel  Address By chairman Green Declaration and Product Environment Declaration  has been issued, aiming to promote energy conservation  and emission reduction. As for human resources develop- ment, we adhered to the people-centered principle to help  employees realize their ambition in the development of  the Corporation, and formulated the medium- and long- term team building plans. In terms of management reform,  we have practiced the tenure system for operators of the  Corporation on a trial basis, in order to fully stimulate the  motive and vitality.  Towards 2012, the era of meager profit for the iron  and steel industry is likely to carry on and the global eco- nomic downturn will continue to exert noticeable influence  upon Chinas export-oriented iron & steel industry, as well  as its downstream industries such as shipbuilding, home  appliances manufacturing and machinery. As the economic  growth pattern of the world changes, developed countries  are reaching down while emerging economies are striving  to catch up, and the manufacturing industry of China will  face pressure coming from both sides. Meanwhile, with a  slowdown of the demand growth, homogenous competi- tion among iron and steel enterprises will be increasingly  intense. Despite all the above, well keep to our belief that  the ultimate value of an enterprise lies in its contributions  to peoples well-being and the fulfillment of its social re- sponsibility. By firmly seizing the opportunity of industrial  transformation and upgrading of national economy in the  12th Five-year Plan period and the opportunity of restruc- turing of the iron and steel industry, Baosteel will give full  play to its advantages accumulated over the past 30-plus  years in technology, management, service and brand build- ing, unswervingly implement the strategy of quality prod- uct plus scale economy, pursue scientific development and  seek to become the best and the most competitive, so as  to better undertake our social responsibility. Those bound  to go far never rush, but keep a rapid speed. On the long  path of creating value and undertaking responsibility, our  pursuit knows no ends and our steps are as firm as ever.  Chairman / 03 02 Address by Leaders   and magnetic material to further utilize wastes, bringing both  social and economic benefits. With its technological strength,  Baosteel Engineering Technology Group actively tapped into  the energy conservation and environment protection field. Its  low-carbon intelligent industrial furnace technology and in- novative green operation reduces the energy consumption per  ton steel by more than 10%. On July 18, 2011, at the release  ceremony of 2010 Baosteel CSR Report, Baosteel Building  System Integration Co. Ltd. was officially established, marking  Baosteels entry into the civilian housing steel structure mar- ket and another attempt in the green industry. The systematic  environment management is a sacred mission challenging our  sense of responsibility and creativity. In the future, well carry  forward the mission by centering on green production, green  products and green industry.  As for our employees, I once said that to fulfill its social  responsibility, Baosteel must first and foremost take good care  of its over 100,000 employees which account for one 10,000th  of Chinas total population of more than 1 billion. We should  be responsible by creating favorable working environment  and providing conditions and opportunities for their career  development. Employees are of great importance to a com- pany, because they represent the most creative production  factor. Baosteel owes its leading position in the world iron and  steel industry to its employees contributions. Based on such  a concept, the vision of common development of employees  and enterprises has been materialized and practiced. In 2011,  we formulated a medium- and long-term talent develop- ment strategy, and was committed to building a mechanism  featuring sufficient incentive, fair distribution and sustainable  development, improving the performance-oriented, coordi- nation-encouraging, fair and just assessment and regulation  mechanism, constantly pushing forward the key talent projects  like the Golden Apple Program and the Green Apple Program,  building an assessment-driven mechanism involving survey  of employees devotion to their work and report on their  career development as final tests, and constantly enhancing  employees quality and optimizing the staff structure. Attach- ing importance to communication between the Corporation  and the employees and the satisfaction of employees mate- rial and spiritual needs, Baosteel has taken substantial steps  in implementing work in the employees vital interests such  as Baosteel Housing Subsidy Plan for Young Employees. All  these measures have created a favorable atmosphere for inte- grating the interests of the employees and the enterprise and  highlighted Baosteels humanistic consideration in fulfilling its  social responsibility.  Philosopher Immanuel Kant once said two things awe  me most, the starry sky above me and the moral law within  me. As for an enterprise, it is our highest moral law to sin- cerely fulfill our social responsibility. Baosteel is devoted to de- veloping a commercial environment that help create shared  value, working closely with all stakeholders, and growing into  a company of endearment with the most complete sincer- ity. Address By president When writing up a message for the CSR report for the  third time, I find that I have more to share rather than less.  In 2009, I expressed my understanding of Baosteels social  responsibility, i.e., value creation, integrity in operation and  environment improvement are the three pillars, while the staff,  community and supply chain are the top priorities. In 2010, I  shared my idea on the sustainable development of the iron  and steel industry, and put forward that Baosteel should take  an environment-friendly way. In this years message, I would  like to discuss with you Baosteels future, in other words, what  will become of Baoteel?  In the new-round development plan, Baosteel provides  clear-cut answers to this question. We are to become the  leader of steel technology, the driver of green industry, the  corporate model for common development of employees and  enterprises. But we still have a long way to go to materialize  this vision. As is known to all, the iron and steel industry today  is faced with grave challenges. Baosteel presses ahead towards  its dream in spite of all the difficulties. In this process I think  environment-friendly operation is our responsibility and will be  our new competitive edge, while employees are the strength  we should rely on most.  Environment management is a significant part of Bao- steels new-round strategy, covering all sectors of procure- ment, production, marketing, research and development. It  serves as a guide in enhancing Baosteels competitiveness and  improving our routine work as well. In 2011, the idea of envi- ronment management has been gradually translated into ac- tion plans in all parts of our operation. In energy conservation  and emission reduction, we have done better than planned in  terms of such indicators as the overall energy consumption per  ton steel and overall energy consumption per RMB10,000 out- put value, and the energy conservation rate is 30% higher than  the target. SO2 and COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) emission  were respectively 20% and 31% lower than planned. In support  of environment management, a life cycle assessment system  has been preliminarily formed for key products, enabling us  to conduct quantitative assessment upon LCA environmental  performance. Moreover, we have issued Baosteel Green Dec- laration, pledging to work with our partners up and down the  supply chain to pursue sustainable development. This declara- tion is not only a solemn promise of Baosteel to pursue envi- ronment-friendly development, but also a manifesto of Bao- steels sincerity and friendliness. In research and development  of green products, we are to create another miracle. Baosteel  is the first to have realized industrial production of QP steel,  the third generation of high strength steel, and have a stable  capacity for 24 types of ultra high strength steel in nine cat- egories. With the high strength steel by Baosteel applied in the  automobile industry, 21.86 million tons of CO2 can be reduced  each year, which means Baosteels contribution to emission  reduction are as great as a Shennongjia prime forest. In addi- tion, Baosteel subsidiaries also tapped into various new areas  of the green industry. Baosteel Development Co., Ltd com- pleted the industrialization of the recycling of super-fine slag  President and Director of Social Responsibility Committee / 05 04 Address by Leaders   Baosteel CSR Report Company Profile Brief Introduction  Baosteel Group Corporation (hereinafter referred to as Baosteel) is a typical enterprise  founded and developed amid China's reform and opening-up. Its construction commenced by  the side of the Yangtze River, in Baoshan District, Shanghai on December 23, 1978, only one  day after the closing of the Third Plenary Session of the Eleventh CPC Central Committee. After  over 30 years of development, Baosteel has become China's most competitive iron and steel  enterprise with the highest level of modernization. Baosteel made its way into the Fortune  Global 500 for the eighth consecutive time and ranked 212th in 2011. Moreover, it was rated  as the "Worlds Most Admired Company". According to Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch,  Baosteel enjoys the highest credit ratings among iron and steel enterprises all over the world.  At the end of 2011, Baosteel has a total of 116,702 employees scattered around the world. With its primary operation in iron and steel, Baosteel produces quality steel with high  technological content and high value added, offering three major series of products, i.e., car- bon steel, stainless steel and special steel. The output in 2011 registered 44.27 million tons  and the total profit amounted to RMB18.15 billion, respectively ranking fourth and second  among iron and steel enterprises around the world. These quality steel products not only sat- isfy domestic demand, but also get exported via our worldwide marketing network to more  than forty countries and regions including Japan, South Korea, Europe and America, to be  widely used in industries such as automobile, home appliances, petrochemical, machinery, en- ergy, transportation, metalwork, aviation, nuclear power, electronic instruments, etc.  Centering on the requirements of the its primary operation in iron and steel, Baosteel  endeavors to develop multiple industries with focus laid on the steel supply chain, techni- cal chain and resource chain to strengthen the integration of external resources and uplift  its overall competitiveness and status in the industry. Baosteel holds six business segments,  namely resource development and logistics, secondary steel processing, engineering and  technology services, coal chemical, financial investment and production services, forming a  structure in which all business segments develop in good coordination. Baosteel identifies itself as the creator of shared value. Observing the moral law of  sincerity, it serves the society wholeheartedly, carries out its business honestly, and complies  with social norms strictly. In pursuit of an atmosphere of friendship, Baosteel aims at shared  development together with its partners, sticks to the principle of being people-oriented, and  commits itself to creating value for all of its stakeholders and for the society and the mother  nature at large. Taking creativity as the basis for survival, development and breakthrough, Bao- steel frees itself from conventions to embrace innovation, strides onto the international stage  with unique business wisdom and innovative ideas, and leads forward technological progress  and reform of the operation model. Looking into the future, Baosteel will uplift its capabilities in cutting-edge technologies,  satisfying services, information-based operations, environment management, and combina- tion of production and finance, to grow from a national enterprise to a global one, extend its  business to cover more materials in addition to iron and steel, and transform from a manufac- turer to a service provider. By this means, we seek to realize the vision of becoming a leader  of iron & steel technology, a driver of the green industry and a corporate model for common  development of employees and the enterprise.  / 07 06 Company Profile  Baosteel CSR Report Bayi Iron & Steel Plant Baosteel Group Xinjiang Bayi Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as Bayi Iron & Steel Plant) sets its strategic  target to become the most competitive steel company in west China and Middle Asia. It mainly provides plain carbon  steel products represented by long steel product, ordinary hot-rolled strip, cold-rolled strip and medium plate, as well as  seamless steel tube. Its main target market is Xinjiang and its surrounding areas in the west, and it also tries to explore  markets in Middle and West Asia. In future, it will focus on enhancing the cost competitiveness and take a low-cost way  of development by utilizing regional resources and serving regional markets.  Revenues: RMB 31.20 billion   Total Profits: RMB 1.70 billion   Number of Employees: 22,612 Baosteel Co. Ltd. Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as Baosteel Co., Ltd) sets forth its strategic target to become the  most competitive iron and steel company in the world. It specializes in producing steel products with high technological  content and high value added. Besides serving as the major steel provider in the domestic market, Baosteel Co., Ltd. ex- ports its products to more than forty countries and regions including Japan, South Korea, Europe and America.  Revenues: RMB 222.86 billion    Total profits: RMB 9.26 billion   Number of employees: 52,461 Ningbo Steel Ningbo Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as Ningbo Steel) sets its strategic target to become a steel company  with the competitive advantage of low cost and a model company to show Baosteels integration capability. It mainly  produces carbon steel products represented by ordinary hot-rolled strip. Its main target market is Zhejiang province and  its surrounding areas boasting logistic advantages. It intends to give full play to the synergetic effect of the Group to  achieve low costs and high efficiency.  Revenues: RMB 21.00 billion    Total Profits: RMB 75 million   Number of Employees: 2,986 Resource Development and Logistics In the new-round development of Baosteel, Baosteel Resources Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as Baosteel Resources)  sets its strategic target to become the most competitive comprehensive mineral resources service provider and one of  the top three enterprises of the industry in China. Its target products include iron ore, coal, iron alloy (nickel, chrome  and manganese alloy), secondary metal resources and logistics resources such as coastal and ocean transportation.  Revenues: RMB 41.34 billion   Total profits: RMB 1.84 billion   Number of employees: 725 Secondary Steel Processing In the new-round development of Baosteel, Baosteel Metal Co., Ltd (hereinafter referred to as Baosteel Metal) intends  to become a leading enterprise in domestic steel processing industry and the industrial gas field, and grow into a  popular industrial operation platform featuring mass production and lean management; its industrial focus is on metal  wrapping, industrial gas and wire products. Revenues: RMB 13.00 billion   Total profits: RMB 343 million   Number of employees: 1,992 Engineering Technology Services Baosteel Engineering & Technology Group Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as Baosteel Engineering) set its strategic  target to be an international engineering technology service provider oriented towards large-scale industrial and urban  construction. It encompasses the traditional industries of engineering technology, IT, equipment manufacturing, steel  structure and iron and steel technology services along with the emerging industries of energy conservation and envi- ronmental protection, housing steel structure and roll.  Revenues: RMB 14.04 billion   Total profits: RMB 706 million    Number of employees: 11,873 Coal Chemical Industry In the new-round development of Baosteel, Shanghai Baosteel Chemi- cal Company Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as Baosteel Chemical) sets its  strategic goal as to become the most competitive solution provider in  the recycling of coking by-products. Its production focuses on coking  by-products.  Revenues: RMB 10.87 billion    Total Profits: RMB 801 million   Number of employees: 1,380 Financial Investment  In the new-round development of Baosteel, Fortune Trust & Investment Co.,  Ltd. set its strategic goal as build itself into a first-class financial solution pro- vider with unique features. Its business covers securities, trust and fund. Revenues: RMB 1.33 billion   Total profits: RMB 527 million  Number of employees: 216 Production Services In the new-round development of Baosteel, Baosteel Development Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as Bao- steel Development) sets its strategic goal as to create an integrated production service management platform,  strengthen the industry of comprehensive secondary resource use, expand the business of steel logistics, and  reinforce real estate management with a view to building itself into a first-class company in the industry, which  boasts strong competitiveness, sound sense of responsibility, unique core competence, and innovative business  models. Its main businesses include comprehensive recycling and reuse of waste metals of metallurgy, steel lo- gistics, real estate management, and integrated production services. Revenues: RMB 17.15 billion   Total profits: RMB 1.19 billion   Number of employees: 21,041  Baosteel Co., Ltd. Bayi Iron & Steel Ningbo Steel Baosteel Resources Baosteel Metal Baosteel Engineering Baosteel Chemical Fortune Trust &  Investment Baosteel Development Iron & steel Resource development and  logistics Secondary steel processing Engineering technology  services Coal chemical industry Financial investment Production Services Baosteel endeavors to develop multiple industries with focus laid on the steel  supply chain, technical chain and resource chain to strengthen the integration of  external resources and uplift its overall competitiveness and status in the indus- try. It holds six business segments, namely resource development and logistics,  secondary steel processing, engineering and technology services, coal chemical  financial investment and production services, forming a structure in which all  business segments develop in good coordination. / 09 08 Company Profile  Baosteel CSR Report Senior Managers Xu Lejiang Chairman / Member of CPC  Standing Committee Liu Zhanying Secretary of CPC Discipline  Committee / Member of CPC  Standing Committee Zhao Zhouli Vice President Liu Guosheng Vice-Chairman / Secretary of CPC  Committee Fu Zhongzhe Deputy Secretary of CPC  Committee He Wenbo Director / President / Member of  CPC Standing Committee Dai Zhihao Vice President Wang Li Secretary of the Board of Direc- tors  / Assistant to the President Ma Guoqiang Member of CPC Standing  Committee Zhou Zhuping Vice President Zhao Kun Vice President / Member of CPC  Standing Committee Zhao Xia Vice President Corporate Leadership Board of Directors Xu Lejiang / Chairman Liu Guosheng / Vice Chairman He Wenbo / Director Victor K. Fung / Outside Director Note: On September 5, 2011, Mr. Zhu Yiming was elected as employee director and Mr. Wang  Jinde ceased to be the employee director.  Stephen Lee / Outside Director Jing Tianliang / Outside Director Xia Dawei / Outside Director Wu Yaowen / Outside Director Gan Yong / Outside Director Zhu Yiming / Employee Director Note: In March 2011, Mr. Fu Zhongzhe became Deputy Secretary of Baosteel CPC Committee,  and Mr. Ouyang Yingpeng ceased to be the same.  / 11 10 Company Profile  Baosteel CSR Report Organization Structure Core Values Integrity and Synergy  The Three Transformations From iron & steel to materials From manufacturing to service From China to the world Corporate Mission It is the common vision of all Baosteel people for Baosteel to be- come a world-class enterprise with first class performance based on  the iron and steel industry. In this respect, Baosteel is committed to:  Become a corporate model for common  development of staff and the Corporation The strategic plan for the period from 2010 to 2015 states that by 2012, Baosteel is set to realize a revenue of RMB310 billion through business  expansion. Meanwhile, in response to external changes, the Corporation has worked out the strategy of three transformations, i.e. to transform from an  iron and steel enterprise to a material enterprise, from a manufacturer to a service provider and from a domestic company to a global one. It is made  clear that the ratio between the primary operation in iron & steel and other operation should be 7:3, manufacturing and service 2:1, and business home  and abroad 8:2. Against such targets, Baosteels achievements in 2010 and 2011 are as follows: The revenue in 2010 registered RMB273 billion, and in  2011 RMB316.2 billion, exceeding the growth target; the revenue generated from diverse industries other than iron and steel accounts for 28% of the  total in 2010, 28.7% in 2011; overseas operation revenue accounted for 11% of the total in 2010, and 12% in 2011; services revenue made up 27% of the  total in 2010, and 26% in 2011.  Corporate Vision, Goal and Fulfillment of the New-Round  Development Strategy, 2010-2015 Corporate Vision Become the leader in the iron & steel technology; Become the driver of green industry; Become a corporate model for common develop- ment of staff and the Corporation Enhance Five Capabilities Technical leadership     Service first Digital Baosteel Environment management Combination of production and finance Administrative Office Planning Development Department Operating Finance  Department Human Resources Department Operation Improvement  Department Development & Reform Department Corporate Culture Department  (Corporate Communication Department) Legal Affairs Department Audit Department Supervision Department Energy and  Environmental Protection Safety and Security Supervision Department Capital Operating Department Real Estate Management Center Financial Service & Data Sharing Center Economic Management Research Institute Human Resources Service Center Talent Development Institute Board of  Directors Board of  Supervisors B o a r d   o f  D ir e c t o r s  O ff ic e s P r e si d e n t Vi ce  P re si d e nt S p e c i a li z e d   C o m m it t e e s / 13 12 Company Profile  Baosteel CSR Report    We guided the suppliers to build the green production  system and encouraged them to get ISO14001 certificates.  Key Performance Indicators in 2011 We drive the development of the  green industry We create an innovative stage for  our employees Investment in R & D: RMB6.35 billion Up to 2,287 patent applications (accepted),  6.27 patents per day on average We won the second China Industry Award We are the leader in the Chinese iron and steel industry The output of crude steel was 44.27 million tons, ranking 4th in the world The total profit was RMB18.15 billion, accounting for 21% of the entire  Chinese iron & steel industry Baosteel was rated as the Most Admired Enterprise in the  World According to Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch, Baosteels credit rat- ing was A, A3 and A- respectively, with a stable prospect. It is evident  that Baosteel enjoyed the highest credit rating in the  global iron and steel industry.    We cherish the valuable water resources on the earth and  make continuous efforts to reduce water consumption in  our production process.  Baosteel Co., Ltd.  materials & spare parts  Bayi Iron & Steel Baosteel Co., Ltd. Raw  Materials Procurement Center Baosteel Chemical  (Direct Supplier) 12% 10% 10% 30% Baosteel Co., Ltd.  down by 1.62% Bayi Iron & Steel  down by 31.05% Ningbo Steel  up by 2.97% Note: Ningbo Steel is among the best  companies at home in terms of new  water consumption per ton steel. Since  it is transiting from a producer of low- end products to a manufacturer of  middle- and high-end products with  high value added, further processing of  products involves a slight increase of  water consumption with the product  line extended.  Certification rate of suppliers New water consumption per ton steel in 2011 against  that in 2009 18.8% Sales rate of new products     We cooperate closely with the  users to develop new products. / 15 14 Company Profile  Baosteel CSR Report Social Responsibility Management Responsibility Governance  While following the guiding philosophy of incorporating the performance of social responsibility into daily corporate business activities and building its  social responsibility system in a systematic way, Baosteel focused on designing its sustainable development strategy. Meanwhile, it prepared reports to promote  social responsibility management. It analyzed problems found in the process of report preparation, summarized experience and worked out solutions, so as to  effectively improve the fulfillment of the Corporations social responsibility by integrating positive development of the social responsibility system.   Organization Structure Responsibility Promotion Process of CSR Report Preparation Accepting the leadership of various promotion groups in the longitudinal direction and being subject  to the business block coordination in the lateral direction.  Fostering the Culture of Responsibility  In August 2011, Bayi Iron & Steel organized a special training ses- sion on Baosteels corporate social responsibility (CSR), for company  leaders and mid-level management staff. During the training session, Bao- steels social responsibility concept and day-to-day operation of its man- agement departments, as well as the whole system were introduced, and  Baosteels efforts to fulfill its social responsibilities in previous years were  presented to the management staff attending the session.  In December, 2011, Baosteels CSR report preparation group held a  training course where Yin Gefei, Deputy Director of WTO Guide, was invit- ed to give instructions on ISO26000 and key points in preparing a quality  CSR report. Experts from Baosteel also shared their experience in prepar- ing the report and benchmarking with advanced companies in the world.  CSR Research In 2011, to get to know risks for the sustainable development of the  environment and communities in Shanghai, answering the requirement of  residents for environmental protection and improve its relationship with  communities, Baosteel launched the Research on Risks for the Sustainable  Development of a City-based Iron and Steel Enterprise and Countermea- sures.  The project group has sent questionnaires to over 240 residents  in 10km around the production base in Shanghai to know their feelings  about the surround environment as well as their complaints and sugges- tions, analyzed major elements influencing their feelings about the envi- ronment and the relationship between the enterprise and communities,  worked out major methods to improve such feelings and relationship.  This research project helped Baosteel to identify stake holders re- quirement in environment and community, so as to improve its capability  of sustainable development.  Joining the United Nations Global Compact Network  China Baosteel has maintained close relationship with the United Nations  Global Compact, since its participation in June 2004. The Corporation  joined the CEO Water Mandate initiated by the organization in June 2009,  attended the Global Compact Leaders Summit 2010 at the 10th anniversary  of the organization, and joined the United Nations Global Compact Net- work China. Baosteel will keep supporting the Global Compact, fulfill its ten  principles and continue to pursue sustainable development.  Iron & steel industry Resource development and logistics Extension Steel processing Engineering & technical services Coal Chemical Industry The financial investment industry Producer services Economic  Section Environment Group Employee  Group Social  Group Economic Environment Employee Social  Social Responsibility Committee Baosteel Economic   Management  Research Institute Office of the Social  Responsibility  Committee Investigation in the  concerns of stakeholders Understanding  the concerns Devising the  topic of report Creating the  report framework Discussion by  internal experts Management  review Training on  preparation of report Material  collection Report  preparation Report  revision Seeking  opinions Report Design Report release / 17 16 Social Responsibility Management / 17  Baosteel CSR Report Laws and regulations; policies and directives;  national and ministerial conferences and  implementation of the spirits; issuance and  implementation of documents; regular work  report; daily work communication; report and  statement; visits. Contract performance; mutual visit and meeting  with senior executives; regular meetings. Satisfaction investigation; user forum; mutual  visit of senior executives; daily communication Labor contracts; reasonable proposals; collective  negotiation; learning materials; meetings; employee forum;  conference of employees representatives. Agreement and contracts, regular visits,  conference, negotiation. Supporting community construction, as well  as cultural, sports and artistic activities of the  community, protecting community environment,  and carrying out volunteer services Joining associations, hold positions, and pay the  membership fee, provide sponsorship, actively  participate in activities. News release; media briefing; information  communication; contact by telephone, email,  and fax; regular correspondence, receiving calls  and visits; portal website. Sticking to operation as per the law and honesty and integrity; continuously improving  sustained profitability; maintaining and adding values of state-owned assets; promoting  industrial development; improving product quality and service level earnestly; enhancing  resource conservation and environmental protection; propelling independent innovation  and technical advance; guaranteeing production safety, maintaining legitimate rights and  interests of employees; participating in social public welfare, rewarding to the community. Achieving win-win result with Baosteel  through close strategic cooperation Providing quality products and services that are continuously improved Growth while the Corporation develops; improving benefits and fair promotion opportunities;  good working environment Growth together with Baosteel, establishing long-term and stable  cooperation relationships and gaining reasonable returns Development together with the Baosteel;  ensuring safe and healthy environment Playing an active role in promoting the fulfillment of social  responsibilities by associations and organizations in special fields Sticking to the road of sustainable development and becoming a role  model in respect to fulfilling social responsibilities as a representative  enterprise in Chinas iron and steel industry. Adhering to the people-oriented ideology and  scientific development, being responsible for  stakeholders and the environment when pursuing  economic benefits to realize the coordination and  unification of corporate development, society and  the environment. Expanding and furthering the cooperation  in the process of Baosteels merger and acquisition Carrying out user satisfaction surveys; conducting  early intervention to meet users needs. Career planning; training of various types and at various levels;  Green Apple and Golden Apple talent training programs;  briefing of situations and tasks; Baosteel Education Material of  Situations and Tasks; Information on Baosteel Youth Demands  and Focus; Submission of the Monthly Report of Bridge  Forum; employees symposium, and internal journals. Implementing the sunshine procurement plan,  building a long-term and stable supply chain,  establishing an open and transparent procurement  environment, and supporting the development of  medium and small suppliers Volunteer service, residents meetings, showing  residents around the factory, new countryside  construction, poverty alleviation in Yunnan and  providing aid to Tibet Actively participating in environmental protection,  economic development, social progress and other  activities involving social responsibility Trying hard to become the leader of steel technologies,  to become the driver of green industries and to become  the corporate model for common development of  employees and enterprise, and releasing  information  related to the performance of social responsibilities in a timely manner Revenue, profit, tax, number of  employees, value retention and  appreciation of state-owned assets Revenue, return on capital, market  share, brand value User satisfaction, honors granted  by users Employees satisfaction; number  and rate of resignation, person- times and cost of employee  training Number of suppliers, responsible  procurement policies  Investment in community building Number of social organization  participated in, annual fees, total  donations Q u a n t i t y  o f  n e w s  r e l e a s e d ,  collection of public opinions and  feedback Government,  investors  (SASAC) Strategic  partners Users Employees Suppliers Community NGO Media and  the general  public Communication Channels for Stakeholders Stakeholder Ways of interaction Major indicator Stakeholders expectation Baosteels practices Responsibility  Communications / 19 18 Social Responsibility Management / 19  Baosteel CSR Report Release of CSR Report On July 18, 2011, Baosteel Group held in Pudong , Shanghai, the 2010  CSR report release ceremony and the inauguration ceremony of Baosteel  Building System Integration Co., Ltd.. He Wenbo, President of Baosteel Group,  Yao Bing, President of China Construction Metal Structure Association, Wu  Zhe, director general of Research Bureau of SASAC of the State Council, Chen  Ying, director of UN Global Compact Network China unveiled the plate of the  new company and 150 representatives of users, suppliers, communities, em- ployees and other stakeholders attended the ceremony.  Opinion Solicitation for 2011 CSR Report In order to help stakeholders to learn the corporate information, Bao- steel conducted a survey regarding CSR concerns through its official website,  questionnaires, phone calls and other ways before the preparation of this CSR  Report. In the survey, 193 questionnaires (visits) were issued in total and all  were collected back. According to the result of survey, we adjusted the pro- portion of information disclosure and increased the disclosure of data so as  to satisfy the stakeholders requirements on related information. Concerns Indentifed in the Investigation New planning and its implementation 158 Risk identification and management 88 CDM implementation 100 Concern Number of People Concerned Strategic partnership 143 Environment-friendly products 113 Customer services 112 Indicators of environmental data 101 Propulsion of key projects 97 Research on product life cycle 94 Composition of employees 79 Volunteer activities 72 Transparent governance 65 Associations and other leisure activities 65 Energy auditing 44 Anti-corruption 112 Reduction of carbon emission 109 Salaries and benefit 171 Recycling economy 137 Technical innovation 131 Charity 123 Supplier management 123 Community relations 105 Baosteel scholarship 95 154 Environmental protection strategy and  measures 149 Indicators of economic data like profit  and sales amount 144 Safety and protection of rights and interests 120 Employee recruitment and career  development 107 Merger, acquisition and restructuring and  eliminating backward production capacity 104 Management reform and organization  adjustment 101 Communication between the corporation  and stakeholders Change over Same  Period Last Year Scope of the Investigation Stakeholders Visited Employees: 81.87% External stakeholders: 18.13% Employees Government and investors Strategic partners Users Suppliers Community NGO Media and the general public Others / 21 20 Social Responsibility Management / 21  Overall Risk Management The Board of Directors approved six major  risks and ten important risks of the top priority  during the whole year in respect of such aspects  as strategy, operation, finance, law and market,  specifying the controlling goal and responsible  unit. Under the joint efforts of the Board of  Directors, the management and all employees,  clear responsibility system has been established  and detailed management and control plan has  formulated, to promptly deal with various emer- gencies. As a result, the major and important  risks have been under effective control.  In accordance with the principle of classi- fication of strategy and investment, operation of  the supply chain, internal pure risks and external  pure risks, the Corporation has formulated well- targeted risk management and control measures,  and established complete and all-around risk  management system; besides, all departments  have enhanced control over inventory risk and  financial risk, effectively dealing with market  changes.  Corporate Governance Board of Directors On September 5, 2011, the Baosteel Group Corporation convened the second session fifth joint  workers congress, at which Mr. Zhu Yiming succeeded Mr. Wang Jinde as the employee director of the  Corporation.  Director Executive  Committee Nomination  Committee Compensation  & Evaluation  Committee Audit  Committee Risk  Management  Committee Chairman Xu Lejiang   Director    Director Vice Chairman  and Secretary of  Party Standing  Committee Liu Guosheng    Director Director and  President He Wenbo Outside Director Victor K. Fung Outside Director Stephen Lee    Director Outside Director Wu Yaowen Outside Director Xia Dawei   Director Outside Director Gan Yong Outside Director Jing Tianliang Members of Board of Directors assume the following positions in specialized committees: Board of Directors Executive Committee Other Special Committees Number of  meetings held Number of matters reviewed Number of  meetings held Number of matters reviewed Number of  meetings held Number of matters  reviewed 2008 6 40 3 12 10 17 2009 8 37 3 10 9 16 2010 8 43 1 6 10 19 2011 10 63 0 0 10 18 Number of conferences convened by the Board of Directors, Executive Committee and special committees and number of  matters reviewed: / 23 22 Honest Business HONEST BUSINESS Baosteel operates in an honest way. Since Baoshan Iron  & steel Co., Ltd. was listed, it has given a dividend of  RMB43.2 billion in total, and managed to maintain  the ratio of annual cash dividend above 40% of the  net profit of the year.   Baosteel CSR Report Item 2009 2010 2011 Financial revenue and expenditure audit 37 66 22 Economic accountability audit 83 64 98 Net asset of property right alteration audit 41 40 32 Project completion settlement audit 37 43 58 Investment project audit evaluation - - 16 Investment project cost audit - - 14 Management audit - - 94 Total 59 116 334 Investment project cost appraisal 23 (projects) 12 (projects) 506 (projects to be  audited) Net reduced project cost after examination RMB831 million RMB336 million RMB449 million Results of Main Audit Items of 2011 The year 2011 saw the audit system finish 334 items, detect 2,216 problems and provided 2,178  suggestions.  Audit System Baosteel has always upheld the principles of independence, objectivity and impartiality and at- tached equal importance to supervision and service in its internal audit so as to help create values, en- hance operation efficiency and eventually realize corporate targets. Internal audit has played important  roles in improving the corporate governance structure, strengthening risk control, preventing the loss of  state-owned assets, standardizing operation and management and promoting management efficiency.  In 2011, Baosteel Group Corporation was honored by the National Audit Office as the National Model  Collective of Internal Audit.    Constant Improvement of Audit System By establishing the Information Source and Project Identification Mechanism, Baosteel audit  system focus its efforts on control and management of strategic significance of the year; besides, it de- signed and formulated the Annual Audit Instructions stipulating clear principles for the audit items and  the outline for improving the management of the audit system. The corporation-wide BAMS provides a  uniform platform for the audit work. Baosteel independently developed the training course for practical  audit work according to the system and the work flow. Three professional training programs totaling 40  class hours were organized in 2011 for 249 person-times, with all attendees passing the examination. On  the basis of such experience and by considering characteristics of management at different levels, the  corporation designed Database of Training Courses and Projects of Practical Audit for Managers, orga- nized 12 training programs for almost 300 person-times.  Audit with Unique Baosteel Characteristics  Innovation in the Mode of Management Audit In 2011, Baosteel summarized its experience and innovate the audit method while implementing  audit projects, and established an innovative practical management audit system with the independently  created BSSO method and light-touch method as the framework, the available function method and  six-step method as the supplement and six mechanisms including the information source and project  identification as the management support. Baosteel Management Audit Practice and Innovation Project  mainly based on this system won the first prize of China Iron and Steel Association Modern Corporate  Management Innovation in 2011.  Project Cluster as the Object of Audit On the basis of the regular single-project audit and in accordance with the principle of expanding  the project coverage and focusing on investment control, Baosteel focused on targeted management  and took project cluster as the object of the investment audit in 2011. It conducted design alteration  and onsite certificate audit for eight projects in total, including 623 certificates and alteration docu- ments, detected 72 problems such as poor implementation of the management system, substandard se- rial number of the onsite certificate and weak ledger management, and proposed 69 audit suggestions  accordingly. As projects selected were mostly under construction, the audit has, to some degree, timely  found and dealt with risks, played an extensive role in controlling before and during risks, and promoted  the exchange and sharing of management experience between project clusters.  Unit: Item Certificate of National Outstanding  Enterprise of Internal Audit Systematic training on audit practices / 25 24 Honest Business  Baosteel CSR Report upon Baosteel subsidiaries is intensified.   4. Bidding and Tendering Supervision  and Inspection  In view of the four types of prominent  problems prone to occur in bidding and tender- ing, Guidelines on Reinforcing Bidding and Ten- dering Management Supervision was provided  to make the bidding and tendering management  standardized and orderly.  5.  Other Supervision and Inspection The Corporation stepped up supervi- sion and inspection upon the acceleration of  economic development mode transformation,  smoothed the five aspects of overall planning,  resource strategy, human resources, brand man- agement, and environment management; regu- lated the work related to celebrations, seminars  and forums; further standardized the examina- tion and approval procedures; strictly controlled  the frequency, scale and budget of meetings;  conducted special inspection upon overseas as- sets operation and property right management,  as well as implementation of major contracts,  put forward recommendations for rectification  of the problems identified, and enhanced the  implementation of relevant work.  6.  Efficiency Supervision The Corporation set up a preliminary su- pervision system and formed an efficient work  mechanism that can reveal facts, causes, and  relevant people, and can develop into a system  and achieve concrete effects. With the Efficiency  Supervision Measures and the Rules for Imple- menting Efficiency Supervision Projects revised  and work procedures improved, systematic  management and all-round progress have been  achieved in this regard. Efficiency supervision  was carried out around the key tasks of project  management, procurement and sales, fund use,  assets disposal, production safety, energy con- servation and emission reduction, and compre- hensive reuse of wastes. In 2011, he Corporation accepted 148  projects for efficiency supervision and 136 were  completed; generated 624 recommendations  through inspection and supervision, and made  five discipline decisions. A total of 866 regula- tions and measures were established and/or  improved. Strengthen Case Investigation and  Incompliance Report Handling Strengthen Case Investigation and  Incompliance Report Handling 1. Case Investigation and Incompli- ance Report Handling Anti-Corruption Campaign 2009 2010 2011 Number of anti-corruption education sessions 917 1,051 1,064 Number of people attending anti-corruption education (10,000) 51.7 45.9 45 Number of people making clean hand commitments 3,491 2,086 3,450 Audit Items 2009 2010 2011 Number of direct leaders to whom the major issues are reported 197 146 181 Amount of part-time remuneration handed in by leaders  (RMB10,000) 142 187.8 237 Number of people reporting their diligence and integrity 1,300 1,518 1,383 Number of people who handed in cash gift, presents and securities 1,420 1,781 2,071 Amount of cash gift, presents and securities handed in (RMB10,000) 159.5 194 240 2009 2010 2011 Number of petitions and offence report 282 245 109 Number of cases accepted and investigated 28 27 25 Number of cases concluded 24 23 21 Number of people given disciplinary punishment by the Party Committee 13 10 4 Number of people given administrative disciplinary punishment 12 16 18 Number of labor contracts terminated 9 3 2 Number of people transferred to the judicial authority 11 3 1 Number of people receiving criminal punishment 8 4 1 Number of training sessions on discipline inspection and supervision - - 90 Number of people trained on discipline inspection and supervision 700 760 2,084 Intensify Supervision and Inspec- tion  1.  Special regulation of project con- struction Efforts were made to effectively imple- ment the rectification measures for the promi- nent problems identified in 2010; moreover, self- examination and self-correction was organized  for another 77 projects worth RMB21.9 billion,  thus promoting the standardization, efficiency,  safety and cleanness.  2.  Special regulation of little coffers Special inspection was made upon the  implementation of rectification measures in this  regard to reinforce standardized management  of presents and cash gifts, improve related rules  and internal control procedures upon bank ac- count management and monetary fund manage- ment. Two little coffers were dealt with in a  strict way and the related personnel and leaders  were punished according to discipline regula- tions.  3.  Special Inspection With a focus on implementing the 3+1  decision-making rule among six other regula- tions, an inspection tour was made to 28 units, in  which 15 common problems plus 3 typical cases  were identified and eight inspection reminders  were issued. In this way, control and supervision  Seek to Establish a Corruption  Prevention and Punishment Frame- work Compatible with Baosteels  Modern Corporate System Through more than four years of explora- tion and practice, an initial framework of corrup- tion prevention and punishment has basically  taken form, encompassing the five major aspects  of anti-corruption education, system improve- ment, supervision, punishment and source con- trol. A closed-loop management mode for anti- corruption has been built with the responsibility  system at the core, the accountability system as  the basis, the discipline inspection and supervi- sion system as the organizational guarantee for  self-construction, systematically promoted, man- aged as a project, and earnestly implemented in  the PDCA pattern.  Reinforce Anti-Corruption Educa- tion A three-level education network involv- ing leaders, managers & authorized personnel,  and ordinary staff has been set up. Aside from  improving the anti-corruption case bank, warn- ing education, demonstration education, risk  informative education of job integrity have been  conducted and made into an institutional ar- rangement. New leaders, reserve talents, as well  as newly-recruited graduates have all received  level-specific anti-corruption education. Disci- pline inspection and supervision organizations  at various levels have effectively promoted risk  informative education of job integrity so that all  operation managers and authorized personnel  can perform their duty according to the regula- tions give proper authorizations and use their  power appropriately. They have also conducted  compliance education among employees, and  made the sensitive posts less so, further improv- ing the pertinence and effectiveness of anti- corruption education.  Strengthen Power Supervision and  Risk Prevention 1. Promote Clean-Handed Conduct of  Leaders Regulations including Opinions on Imple- menting Anti-Corruption Education among  Leaders, Baosteels Regulations on Party Conduct  Construction and Anti-Corruption Responsibil- ity System, and Baosteels Eight Bans for Anti- Corruption have been formulated and revised.  The supporting rules on 3+1 major decisions,  internal control, control upon authorization, and  responsibility investigation have been improved.  2. Enhance Openness and Transpar- ency of Power Operation Given the grim market which only allows  us meager profit, we actively respond to the  sharp competition and the transformation of the  iron & steel industry. With open and transpar- ent power operation at the core and all-round  risk prevention as the focus, we watch over the  leaders decision-making and authorized person- nels allocation of resources. IT-based means are  adopted to push ahead with Five Sunshine Proj- ects in key areas and links, i.e., talent selection  and use, remuneration management, public fund  use (job-related consumption), procurement  and sales, and project operation in a transpar- ent and open manner. It is essential to reinforce  process optimization and control, incorporate  the requirements of clean-handed conduct into  enforcement management and the entire execu- tive process, and constantly enhance the Party  conduct construction and the scientificity of anti- corruption campaign. Such endeavor constitutes  an important part of Baosteels core competitive- ness.  With the Opinions on Implementation  Rules for Reporting Important Clues for Serious  Violations of Laws and Disciplines formulated,  the Corporation intensified case source manage- ment and improved its important case report  system. Through works in this regard, 5 super- vision proposals were issued, 21 defects were  rectified, 11 persons were approached for ad- monishment talks, and 21 leaders were involved  in accountability investigation. Five case study  lectures were held. As thus, the radical rectifica- tion function was further reinforced. 2. Implement the Ban System Efforts continued to implement the Opin- ions on Implementation of Publicizing the List of  Bribery Units and Related Ex-Employees. The 8th  banned list consisted of 11 units and 396 people,  making a total of 179 units and 1,472 people  prohibited from doing business with Baosteel. Reinforce Construction of the Dis- cipline Inspection & Supervision  System The Corporation provided job specifi- cations and team competence model for the  discipline inspection and supervision force,  expanded the career development path for rel- evant personnel, promoted the communication  and exchanges among leaders of the discipline  inspection and supervision teams and staff ex- change between different units. 23 outstanding  young and mid-aged employees with excellent  professional skills, management experience, and  policy understanding were selected for the staff  exchange, and 20 of them were transferred or  promoted to management positions or Party  Committees. A talent cultivation mode for the  discipline inspection and supervision system has  been established, comprising the five segments  political awareness, intensive training, experience  exploration, learning in action and practical train- ing. In 2011, the Corporation sent 80-plus people  to attend systematic training programs held  by the CPC Central Commission for Discipline  Inspection, the Discipline Inspection Commis- sion of the State-owned Assets Supervision and  Administration Commission of the State Council  and Shanghai Discipline Inspection Commission;  conducted exchanges with central enterprises  like Wuhan Iron and Steel (Group) Company  and China Eastern Airlines, held workshops for  secretaries of grassroots discipline inspection  commissions and heads of supervision depart- ments. The Discipline Inspection and Supervi- sion Department of the Corporation organized  professional training aimed at arousing passion,  boosting profession and enhancing value, in a  bid to constantly enhance the teams capability  to fulfill their responsibilities.  / 27 26 Honest Business  Direct Economic Performance  In 2011, despite of the slowdown of demand growth, the rising costs and overcapacity in the iron  and steel industry on the whole, Baosteel remained in the leading position in the market of iron and  steel, its major market, presented sound overall performance and good development prospect in various  industries in a well-defined industrial structure, and was becoming the powerhouse for further develop- ment of the whole group and a strong balancing force amid fluctuations of the iron and steel industry.  In this year, Baosteel achieved an annual iron output of 40.09 million tons and an annual steel output of  44.27 million tons, and realized gross revenue of RMB316.245 billion and a profit of RMB18.151 billion.  Merger and Reorganization  On May 22, 2011, Baosteel Zhanjiang Steel Co. Ltd was founded in Zhanjiang, Guangdong Prov- ince, and on August 22, 2011, agreements were signed in Guangzhou for Baosteels reorganization of  Shaoguan Iron & Steel Co. Ltd (Shaoguan Steel) and Guangzhou Iron & Steel Enterprises Group (Guang- zhou Steel), marking essential progress of reorganization of the iron and steel industry in Guangdong  and laying a preliminary foundation for the iron & steel project in Zhanjiang. Equity transfer of Shao- guan Steel was approved by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the  State Council at the end of 2011. Baosteel would hold 51% of the shares of Shaoguan Steel. The joint  venture of Baosteel and Guangzhou Steel, Guangzhou Steel Sheets Co. Ltd was founded at the end of  2011. These reorganization projects laid a solid foundation for the commencement of iron & steel proj- ects in Zhanjiang and the Companys industrial layout and optimization of its product structure in the  Zhujiang Delta.  In 2011, Baosteel carried out reorganization and preliminary integration of Baosteel Desheng  Stainless Steel Co., Ltd located in the coastal area of southeast China, made up its deficits and achieved  a profit of RMB213 million, which contributed to the optimization of Baosteels stainless steel assets and  industrial layout. Total revenue Total cost Total profit Total assets Total owners equity 1953.0 2729.8 3162.5 1867.1 2546.80 3020.3 149.1 242.3 181.5 4019.9 4321.3 4673 2429.71 2601.8 2662.4 2009 2010 2011 Unit: RMB100 million / 29 28 Value Creation VALUE CREATION Baosteel is one of the best profit makers in the iron  and steel industry of the world. In 2011, it achieved an  output accounting for 5.7% in the iron and steel  industry of China, and generated 21% of the total  profit of the industry.   Baosteel CSR Report Major Projects  1x135MW Residue Energy Power Generation  Project of Ningbo Steel Ningbo Steel constructed a 235MW steam turbo generator unit  supplemented by a 400 ton/hour gas-fired boiler and other  auxiliary facilities to improve its utilization of residue energy and  ensure efficient energy recycling and save energy and reduce  emission to the largest extent. The project is fueled mainly by  surplus gas from blast furnaces of Ningbo Steel. The project is  completed and put into operation in September 2011, and with  a designed annual capacity of 660,000,000 kWh, it saves 210,000  tons of standard coal per year.  Phase II of the Oriented Silicon Steel Project of  Baosteel Co., Ltd The project commenced in March 2010 and was put into operation  in November 2011. With a design annual capacity of 100,000 tons, it  consists of a pre-rolling unit, a silicon steel finishing unit and other  equipment. Baosteel independently integrated the techniques and  technologies of the project, and the duration of the project was 5  months shorter than Phase I. With this project put into operation,  Baosteel seen further improved productivity, product quality and  product structure of in the field of oriented silicon steel, and higher  proportions of high-level oriented silicon steel and laser-inscribed  products, enabling it to better satisfy the demand of Chinese power  transmission and transformation industry for oriented silicon steel.  Meishan Steel 1420 Cold Rolling Project Meishan 1420 is a national demonstration project for domesti- cally developed and owned large metallurgical equipment,  a key project of Nanjing. It offers strong support for inde- pendent innovation of Baosteel and an import approach to  improve its competitiveness and foster its innovative system.  All processes including R&D, design, manufacturing, debug- ging and operation and all components of the units includ- ing techniques, machinery, electric equipment, instruments  and the computer system are domestically developed and  manufactured, with 70% in value of the whole project being  domestically-owned. The project includes eight units for eight  different processes such as acid rolling, continuous anneal- ing, electrotinning, hot galvanizing, hot-dip aluminizing, and  hot-dip al-zinc galvanizing, extending the Meishan Steels  final product varieties from the traditional hot rolled plate coil  to plates coated with tin, zinc, and al-zinc, achieving higher  value-added. The project not only helps Baosteel achieve es- sential progress in independent development and ownership  of large equipment and in project mechanism, operational or- ganization, risk control and talent training, but also brings the  domestic equipment manufacturing to a higher level.  Baicheng Iron & Steel Base of Bayi Iron &  Steel Co., Ltd in Southern Xinjiang Authorized by the National Development and Reform Com- mission, the Government of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous  Region in August 2011 officially approved the Baicheng Base  project. Making use of the ore and coke resources in Xinji- ang, the project would have a capacity of 3 million tons with  desulfurization facilities to reduce SO2 emission. The project  was under construction and would be completed and put into  production in 2012. Industrialization of Comprehensive Utilization of Iron  Oxide Red of Baosteel Development Magnetic material, as a medium for electromagnetic conduction extensively  used in communications, information, auto electronics, green energy and  other sectors, is an important basic functional material for various modern  industries. Manganese-zinc soft magnetic ferrite produced by Baosteel Mag- netic Co., Ltd. under Baosteel Development is the most widely-used magnetic  material. After a decade of exploration and development, the company has  formed a complete industrial chain in terms of utilization of steel by-products  and renewable resources and become an important support for the recycling  economy of Baosteel. The project, covering an area of 9.3 hectares in Haimen  of Jiangsu Provinces, would be built in two phases to produce high- and me- dium-level magnetic materials. The designed annual capacity would be 50,000  tons of manganese-zinc soft magnetic ferrite.  Haimen Steel Structure Project of Baosteel Engineering  To make use of Baosteels technological and management advantages and the  favorable shipping conditions on the Yangtze River of Haimen, and to build a  professional manufacturing enterprise with the core concept of digital steel  structure, Baosteel Engineering invested RMB720 million in a heavy high-end  steel project with an annual capacity of 150,000 tons. The project was com- menced on January 26 and completed eleven months later on December 23,  2011, achieving the goal of commencement, completion and operation in the  same year and setting a new record of construction speed. After completion  of the project, Baosteel Steel Structure (Jiangsu) Co., Ltd became a profes- sional steel structure manufacturer with the largest individual capacity and the  highest automation level of the industry in China. The company would rely  on the high-performance steel of Baosteel as well as its strong design, R&D,  contracting and information-based management abilities and the geographic  advantage of Haimen to provide users with highly cost-efficient and all-round  steel structure solutions.  Wuhan Can Making Project of Baosteel Metal  Co., Ltd.  The project is jointly invested by Baosteel Metal Co., Ltd. and Yinghe  International Co., Ltd, an enterprise that mainly supplies two-piece  aluminum cans for famous beverage enterprises such as JDB, Coca  Cola, Pepsi, and Tsingtao Beer with a capacity of 1,400 cans/minute,  or 480, 000,000 cans/year. Officially founded in November 2011,  Wuhan Baosteel Can Making Co., Ltd. is the fifth domestic two- piece can maker under Baosteel following those in Shanghai, Hebei,  Chengdu and Foshan.  / 31 30 Value Creation  Baosteel CSR Report steel factories to produce fuel ethanol were launched. Production services achieved  important progress in use of resource: after years of R&D, Baosteel mastered the core  technology for industrialization of super high purity iron oxide and erected Chinas first  medium-capacity trial production line with an annual capacity of 1,000tons of iron red,  breaking the technological barriers such as JFE for iron oxide producers.  Technical Trade Cases As a state-of-the-art and environment-friendly slag treatment technology that  had been developed by Baosteel after 10 years of incessant exploration, BSSF not only  resolved the problem of environment pollution in slag treatment but also worked out a  solution to the problem of recovery & recycling of slag resources. This technology had  been transferred to steel plants both at home and abroad such as Ma Steel, Jiuquan  Iron & Steel, JSW of India, POSCO of Korea and so on. In 2011, the two sets of BSSF  units were successfully put into use in POSCO and helped it resolve the long-lasting  on-line slag treatment and environmental pollution bottlenecks and triggered coop- eration of the third unit. In addition, Baosteel carried out technological exchange with  Russian Kato Steel, POSCO Indonesia and POSCO Brazil to introduce its technology  and build up its technological strength.  Technical Innovation Cases Resorting to its profound R&D foundations and technology superiorities, auto  sheet of Baosteel achieved a market share of 49% and maintained its leading position  in domestic market. R&D of new products made outstanding breakthroughs. In terms  of R&D of automobile sheet, Baosteel took the lead in industrialized production of  the third generation of advanced high strength steel (Q&P) in the world, and achieved  steady production of 24 types of 9 categories of super high strength steel, of which the  strength of cold reduced sheet reached 1,500MPa, and that of hot galvanized sheet  reached 1,180MPa, meeting international advanced level. Item Unit 2009 2010 2011 Ratio of R&D input % 1.2 2.0 2.0 Amount of R&D input RMB10,000 233,800 509,794 635,159 Product sales ratio % 18.6 17.6 18.8 Number of patent applications  (accepted) - 914 1,426 2,287 Economic benefits of research  projects RMB10,000 151,125 226,300 233,530 Contractual value of technology  trade RMB10,000 11,345 9,485 9,462 Number of technology transactions - - - 63 Economic benefits of technology  promotion RMB100  million - - 2.649 Technology and Management Innovations  Technological Innovation System Construction Centering on the Plan for Technological Innovation System  Construction, Baosteel focused on ten tasks for its system con- struction in 2011, improved its innovation system structure, and  further optimized the operation mechanism. To create a high- level R&D platform, Baosteel carried out resource integration  for its R&D systems with the Baosteel Research Institute as the  core, prepared the plan for innovation system optimization and  identified the management status of Baosteel Research Institute  and technology centers. Moreover, characteristic and competi- tive innovation systems were under construction in engineering  technology and other industrial sections to support the industrial  chain.  Main Innovation Achievements 1. Baosteel adhered to the strategy of technology lead- ership, carried out continuous innovation of high-end prod- ucts and R&D of core technologies, and constantly improved  its market competitiveness. It took the lead in applying Q&P  technology for industrial production of the QP-steel, the third- generation advanced high-strength steel. It achieved mass  production of B27R085, the top-grade 0.27mm oriented silicon  steel, with world-class performance. It mastered the essential  technology for production of nickel-base alloy oil casing with a  full range of steel types and specifications. It achieved mass sup- ply of high corrosion resistant steel S450EW for railway vehicles,  making Baosteel the first Chinese developer and manufacturer  of the third-generation corrosion resistant steel for railway ve- hicles. It made remarkable progress in new technologies such as  the third-generation oxide metallurgy and the third-generation  TMCP; environment-friendly technologies such as industrializa- tion of thin strip continuous casting and hot production of slag  wool were put into industrial trial.  2. With industrial collaboration, Baosteel made techno- logical breakthroughs in multiple fields. Its engineering technol- ogy section accelerated the industrialization of R&D results for  special equipment and technology, and the LF complete equip- ment technology, high-temperature smoke waste heat recycling  equipment, and NDT equipment successfully achieved industrial  application; its intensive metal processing focused on develop- ment of products and technology including high-performance  steel thread cutting and reducing the thickness of DI materi- als for can making; breakthrough was made in R&D of high- performance steel thread cutting, new progress was achieved  in reducing the weight of two-piece can and the 0.115mm cut  thread was developed; DI material for steel can was completely  shifted from 0.225mm to 0.220mm; emerging industrial projects  such as the demonstration project of using exhaust gases from  Improvement of Assets Operation Efficiency Improvement of assets operation efficiency was a key strategic measure of Baosteel for crises and  optimization of resource allocation in recent years, and was a systematic and long-term task. Baosteel  in an all-round manner pushed forward management of assets operation efficiency, stressed the output  efficiency of investment in its business and began to emphasis resource optimization and efficient return  in addition to profit growth. By improving the assets operation efficiency, Baosteel had reduced the tie- up of assets and presented a smart balance sheet. In response to progress of management of assets operation efficiency, Baosteel introduced the  operating result evaluation indicator system centering economic value added, which satisfies the de- mands for both shareholders benefit and utilization efficiency of the entire assets, and identifies the  target for assets operation efficiency tasks.  Baosteel actively sought for methods and philosophy for improvement of assets operation ef- ficiency, carefully summarized good practices and promotes them within the group, and was develop- ing supporting incentive mechanism to bring the Corporation and all employees with unprecedented  opportunities and challenges. Each unit based on their own characteristics proposed various methods  and ideas for improvement of assets operation efficiency and carried out effective works with initial  results. Guided by such ideas, each unit not only made innovation in terms of environmental operation,  development of both industrial business and financial business and investment decision, but also won  achievements in traditional sectors including inventory management, process streamline and plan con- trol by combining IT and the ideas of economic value added. At the end of 2011, Baosteel Daily for three  consecutive days presented full-page reports on 17 best practices of nine companies. The paper also  presented public appraisal of best practices which came out with five winners. Baosteel Development: Introduction of Management Mechanism and  Operational Practices Ningbo Steel: Saving RMB160 million from Wastes Baosteel Metal: Enhancing Profitability by the Energy Billboard Baosteel Chemical: Promoting Product Optimization by Cutting off  Nonessentials Bayi Iron & Steel: Streamline Processes to Improve Efficiency and Op- timize Routes to Reduce the Cost Asset efficiency training for management staff of Baosteel Asset efficiency training for CIMC Shenzhen / 33 32 Value Creation  Baosteel CSR Report ness in automobile sheet design and production  sector, and build the Office of Research a Chi- nese leading, internationally advanced innova- tive development platform and base with inde- pendent innovation capacity and internationally  leading position in certain areas.  In 2011, Baosteel and University of Sci- ence and Technology Beijing signed agreement  of the 2nd round of strategic cooperation. The  new round of cooperation would adhere to the  principle of integration of advantages, mutual  benefits, practical results and mutual develop- ment, follow the guidance of the 12th Five-year  Plan for science and technology development  and the 12th Five-year Plan for new material  and steel industries, give play to the advantages  of the University in academicians, scientific and  technological talents and research facilities and  the industrial advantages of Baosteel in order to  promote transfer of scientific and technological  results to actual production and foster key tech- nological innovations and breakthroughs.  Active Support to Sustainable Devel- opment Task of International Iron and  Steel Institute In 2011, Baosteel enhanced team building  for Worldsteel/ISSF-Baosteel Special Commit- tee, adjusted and optimized the chairpersons, li- aison representatives and attached Committees  organizations.  As a member of the International Iron and  Steel Institute, Baosteel actively took part in pro- grams and event organized by the Environmen- tal Technology Committee, Environmental Policy  Committee and SUSCO of the Institute to use  its communication platform to focus on policies  and rules of the steel industry and movements  of international environmental organizations  to cope with recent and future environmental  problems of the industry. In 2011, Baosteel became the chair or- ganization of the Clean Air program of the  Institute. The program provided technological  communication on dust control technology,  application performance, rules and policies  and management practices and guidance for  improvement of industrial environment. By now,  the program had seen participation of 22 re- nowned steel enterprises from 15 countries. In  March 2011,Baosteel sponsored in Shanghai the  launch ceremony the program attended by 35  members and experts from ArcelorMittal, Thys- senKrupp, Tata Steel, Hyundai Steel, Rautaruukki,  Anshan Iron & Steel Group, Wuhan Iron & Steel  Group, Shougang Group and other domestic  and international giants of the industry and ex- tensive discussion on the content, objectives and  progress of the program.  Technology Exchange Baosteel attached great importance to technology exchange and cooperation  with its counterparts to discuss on solutions about the meager profit of steel indus- try. Technology Exchange In 2011, Baosteel organized and participated in technology exchanges with In- ternational Iron and Steel Institute, Iron and Steel Institute of Japan, Nippon Steel Cor- poration and JEF Steel Corporation of Japan, China Steel Corporation of Taiwan (CSC),  POSCO of Korean, Iron and Steel Institute of Germany and Kobe University of Japan.  Baosteel has formed regular technology exchange mechanism with CSC, POSCO  and the Iron and Steel Institute of Japan. On February 2011, a delegation led by Presi- dent He Wenbo visited CSC. Both parties frankly exchanged ideas on energy and en- vironmental protection. In September, a delegation led by Assistant President Wang  Jianyue visited POSCO, Nippon Steel Corporation and JEF and exchanged ideas on en- ergy conservation and emission reduction technology and management, CO2 emission  R&D and development trends. Also in 2011, Baosteel saw various technology exchanges with domestic steel  enterprises and research institutes.  Development in Cooperation The morning of April 9, 2011 saw the official establishment of Baosteel Australia  R&D Center in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. Mr. Jia Qinglin, member of the Political  Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Chairman of CPPCC National Committee,  Mr. Xu Lejiang, Chairman of Baosteel , President Paul Greenfield and Vice President  Max Lu of University of Queensland unveiled the plaque of the Center. The Center  was jointly sponsored by Baosteel and the University of Queensland and involved the  University of New South Wales, Monash University and University of Wollongong, and  would focus on technology R&D in the fields of new materials, new energy, energy  conservation and environmental protection.  In 2000, Baosteel and Shanghai Jiaotong University founded the Office of Re- search on Automobile Sheet Application and Technology. For years, two parties by  sharing advantages and resources have made joint efforts to Baosteels development  strategy and solution about technological bottlenecks, undertaken State 863 Program,  Key Hi-tech Industrialization Program of Shanghai, as well as scientific research pro- grams of Baosteel and various users. In addition to multiple state- and provincial-level  awards, its automobile sheet lean shaping technology system was identified an im- portant innovative technology by the expert team consisting of academicians, and won  wide recognition from Chinese steel and automobile industries. In 2011, the two par- ties signed the new cooperation agreement specifying key cooperation areas, methods  and IPR. To play their respective advantages, the two parties also agreed that they  would strengthen the producer-college-institute cooperation, create core competitive- Technology Exchange Exchange with technicians and management team of POSCO Exchange with technicians and management team of Nippon Steel Corporation Exchange with CSC Baosteel also became the chair organiza- tion of the China 2020 program which intended  to gain in-depth understanding of the prospect  of Chinese iron & steel market in the future ten  years. The program pays close attention to the  impact of Chinese steel industry on the worlds  steel industry and its development trends, analy- ses the key elements that affect Chinese steel  industry, and tents to build up close relationship  and extensive communication with Chinese steel  industry.  In 2011, Baosteel sponsored the annual  work meeting of SUSCO participated by steel en- terprises from Germany, UK, Brazil, Japan, Korea  and India and Chinese steel enterprises including  CSC, Anshan Steel, Wuhan Steel and Baosteel  as well as over 20 experts from the International  Iron & Steel Institute, Chinese Iron & Steel Insti- tute and Chinese Society for Metals. Participants  held special workshops on the sustainable devel- opment of steel industry, exchanged ideas on the  product life cycle program, steel for wind power  program, sustainable development indicators  and action projects, and organized the dedicated  technological exchange of Baosteel. Participants  also visited the production site of Baosteel and  highly commended Baosteels fruits in sustain- able management.  / 35 34 Value Creation  Become the Pioneer Driving the Green Industry Green Declaration Baosteel shows its courage in face of changes of the times, depletion of natural resources, dete- riorating environment and endless global environmental problems. It adopts environmental manage- ment, takes the environmental demands of the society opportunities and included the demands into its  operation. In 2011, Baosteel published its Green Declaration to the society which committed to energy  conservation and emission reduction during its production, carry out environmental-friendly design,  develop environmental-friendly products, integrate environmental-friendly technology and develop  environmental-friendly industry to provide the society with better, reliable, environmental-friendly and  constantly improving products and services in a new era.  Green Vision A leader in Chinese iron & steel manufacturing and a provider of environmental-friendly products and services, Baosteel advocates and is dedi- cated to the green industrial chain. In addition to facilitating comfortable modern life, we are devoted to the mission of environmental protection and  environmental burden relief. We hereby make the following commitments:  I. We will develop manufacturing techniques of high energy and resource efficiency, develop and promote products and systems with high en- ergy and resource efficiency, share with users advanced environmental-friendly designs and technologies, and provide the society with products and  services with good environmental performance.  II. We set environmental law compliance as the minimum standard. We promise not to intentionally add substances that are prohibited by law  or harmful to the environment and human health during our manufacturing process, and to reduce negative impacts on the environment throughout  the service life of our products. III. We preferably cooperate with suppliers and sub-contractors with good environmental performance, help suppliers raise their awareness and  performance of sustainable development, and actively provide customers with green solutions to jointly build the green industrial chain. IV. We issue environmental declarations for our products based on life cycle assessment and reveal the environmental performance of our core  products to facilitate customers and related parties to compare the life cycle impacts of various products. V. We will actively cooperate with governments, enterprises and the international community to promote application of international research  results and develop in line with advanced energy conservation and environmental improvement technologies.  Baosteel will unswervingly seek to improve product performance while reducing the negative impacts on the environment, and to achieve har- monious development of the Corporation and the environment. Baosteel will set environmental-friendly operation as the principle of its development  strategy, workflow and daily operation. We will, as we have always been doing, explore the way to sustainable development of the iron and steel in- dustry, build a brand new role in the society and create a better future.  The Green Declaration / 37 36 Environment Management ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT Baosteel adopts Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) for the environment burden  and impacts imposed by steel products during their life cycle with a view to  developing environmental-friendly products and helping the society save  energy and reduce emission.  Taking non-oriented silicon steel sheet, one of the major materials for air- conditioner compressors as example, a kilogram of high-grade silicon steel  B35A300 increases carbon emission by 0.09% in production, but  reduces that by 3.8% while applied to air-conditioner compressors,  which means a reduction of 857,000 tons per year.   Baosteel CSR Report Green Manufacturing Green Management System Management Guidelines Strictly comply with state laws, regulations and standards on energy conservation and environ- mental protection and implement international environmental conventions; Introduce stricter internal control standards and continue to reduce energy consumption and en- vironmental impacts in the course of corporate production and product use; Improve production technologies, optimize energy structure, reduce energy consumption, and cut  down energy costs; Systematically transform newly-acquired production units in energy conservation and environ- mental protection, and maintain the Corporations overall level of energy conservation and environmen- tal protection; Promote waste reduction, reuse and recycling, and raise recycled use efficiency; Care about stakeholders opinions and demands and continuously improve the quality of commu- nity environment; Encourage partners to continuously improve in energy and environmental management and per- formance; Care about climate change, actively participate in domestic and foreign exchanges and coopera- tion on energy conservation and environmental protection, promote research, development and ap- plication of energy-saving and environment-friendly technologies, and improve the global ecological  environment; Enhance employee awareness and ability in energy conservation and environmental protection  and motivate all employees to participate in energy conservation and environmental protection Energy Management System  In 2010, Baosteel Co., Ltd (HQ) and Baotian New Building Material Co., Ltd under Baosteel Devel- opment respectively became the first iron & steel and cement enterprise to pass the national energy  management system certification.  Based on achievements made in 2010, Baosteel in 2011 continued to optimize its energy manage- ment, improve its general operation level of energy management system, and in an all-round manner  pushed forward certification of energy management system. In this year, Stainless Steel Division, Special  Steel Division, Meishan Iron & Steel and Baotong Iron & Steel passed energy management system cer- tification; Ningbo Steel officially started energy management system certification work; Bayi Iron & Steel  also started the certification work following establishment of its energy management system promotion  leading group and management office.  Environmental Management System  Baosteel believes that the standards of en- vironmental management system are the foun- dation for environmental management. Baosteel  Co., Ltd. was the first in Chinas steel industry to  start the ISO14001 environmental management  system certification and the first to pass the cer- tification. At present, all steel production units  under Baosteel Co., Ltd. have all been certified to  be in conformance to ISO14001. Bayi Iron & Steel passed the ISO14001  certification for environmental management sys- tem in 2005.  Ningbo Steel, a new steel enterprise, was  in the process of the ISO14001 certification for  environmental management system. Baosteel promoted the standards of en- vironmental management system to strengthen  fundamental management of industrial enter- prises involving environmental management. At  present, most of the industrial enterprises with  diverse industries have passed the ISO14001 cer- tification for environmental management system.  In 2008, Baosteel issued management  documents requiring its iron & steel production  units to organize cleaner production review, and  in 2011 issued the Three-year Action Plan for  Cleaner Production and Performance Improve- ment in 2011-2013, and invited experts from  Shanghai to give lectures to competent leader- ship, managerial team of energy and environ- mental protection and production backbones of  each unit.  In 2011, among all enterprises in Shang- hai, Baosteel Co., Ltd. (HQ) and Baosteel-NSC/ Arcelor Automotive Steel Sheets Co., Ltd for the  first time applied for and passed the cleaner pro- duction review; the Stainless Steel Division and  Special Steel Division also passed the cleaner  production re-examination. Meanwhile, Baosteel  Chemical, Shanghai Baoyi Can Co., Ltd, Shanghai  Baosteel Chemical Co., Ltd., Shanghai Baosteel  Packing Material Co, Ltd., and Shanghai Baotian  New Building Material Co., Ltd. with diverse  industries also passed the cleaner production  review. Enterprises out of Shanghai including  Bayi Iron & Steel, Suzhou Metallurgical Heavy,  Shaoguan Iron & Steel Group, Hebei Can Making  Co., Ltd. and those settled in Shanghai includ- ing Shanghai Kede Company, Jiangnan Rolls  Company, the Technology and Machine Building  Division all launched cleaner production review  works.  In 2011, Baosteel developed 160 cleaner  production plans for material conservation,  energy conservation, technique optimization  and emission reduction through promotion of  cleaner production review, which was expected  to bring benefits of RMB946,000,000 and re- markably reduced energy consumption in 37 of  the 68 iron and steel production processes com- pared to 2010.  Environment Accounting Research  Project Baosteel pays close attention to environ- mental issues and has been labeled scientific  management, superior steel and environmental  protection. Facing more and more harsh envi- ronmental requirements, Baosteel chooses to  actively meet challenges. It proposes the strat- egy of environment operation, raising environ- ment operation to a strategic level. To support  the strategy goals of environment operation,  Baosteel launched the project of Environment  Accounting Theory and Practice.  The project involved SASAC and Ministry  of Finance, with National Accounting Institute  in charge of research works and Baosteel as the  responsible party. One and half years later, it  came up with the Report of Baosteel on Environ- ment Accounting Theory and Practice (consisting  of analysis and result application), which met  domestic and international accounting theories  and highlighted the operational practices of  Baosteel. The research for the first time the role  of environment management in both financial  accounting and management accounting, pro- vided favorable advices on macro policy and  implementation, and would serve as guidance  for environment accounting practices of domes- tic enterprises.  SASAC, Ministry of Finance and Shang- hai National Accounting Institute highly com- mended the research. Experts believed that the  environment management idea of Baosteel met  the development trends of the mainstream soci- ety, conformed to Chinese macro situation and  the energy conservation and emission reduction  tendency; and that it serves to guide enterprises  to implement strategies, establish scientific view  on business performance, find out and improve  environment management deficiencies, make up  management insufficiencies, build up competi- tiveness, and achieve sustainable development.  Experts also expressed that this was an issue  extensively concern by the society and with great  significance at state level.  Education and Training In 2011, Baosteel enhanced training on  energy management and energy management  system, application of energy conservation  and emission reduction technology, cleaner  production and environment management and  situation of and police for energy conservation  and emission reduction during the 12th Five- year Plan. There were 24 training courses, 27  classes and 1,058 trainees. The Corporation also  organized innovation forum, innovation saloon  and special workshops on green steel produc- tion and sustainable development of enterprises,  covering subjects such as low-carbon develop- ment of steel industry, development of green  industry and green energy, and key technolo- gies and countermeasures for energy conserva- tion and emission reduction in steel industry. In  this year, Baosteel developed five online course- ware, namely environment management and  energy conservation and emission reduction of  Baosteel, energy management system, foun- dation and assessment of energy management,  energy conservation technology application and  case study, and energy audit and case study,  laying a solid foundation for online training  within Baosteel.  Energy Management System Certification of Industrial Enterprises of Baosteel Certified enterprise Enterprise to be certified Baosteel Co., Ltd (HQ, incl. Steel Pipe & Tube Division Head Office and Baosteel- NSC/Arcelor Automotive Steel Sheets Co., Ltd.) Bayi Iron & Steel Stainless Steel Division Ningbo Steel Special Steel Division Meishan Iron & Steel Baotong Iron & Steel Baotian New Building Material Co., Ltd under Baosteel Development Cleaner Production Review of Industrial Enterprises of Baosteel Reviewed enterprises Enterprises under review Baosteel Co., Ltd (HQ, incl. Steel Pipe & Tube Division Head Office  and Baosteel-NSC/Arcelor Automotive Steel Sheets Co., Ltd.) Technology and Machine Building Division Stainless Steel Division Bayi Iron & Steel Special Steel Division Suzhou Metallurgical Heavy Baosteel Chemical Jiangnan Rolls Company Baotian New Building Material Co., Ltd under Baosteel  Development Hebei Can Making Co., Ltd. Shanghai Baoyi Can Co., Ltd, Shanghai Kede Company Shanghai Baosteel Packing Material Co, Ltd. Shaoguan Iron & Steel Group Ningbo Steel ISO14001 Certification of Industrial Enterprises of  Baosteel Percentage of certified iron & steel  enterprises  100% Percentage of certified non-iron & steel  enterprises 85% Examination & Verification of Cleaner  Production In August 2004, the former General Ad- ministration of Environmental Protection issued  the Provisional Measures for Cleaner Production  Review which encouraged enterprises to carry  out self review in this regard. In 2005, Baosteel Co., Ltd. won the exclu- sive honor of National Environment-friendly  Enterprise of Chinese iron & steel industry.  In 2007, Baosteel Co., Ltd. was awarded  the first Cleaner Production and Environment- friendly Enterprise by China Iron & Steel As- sociation, and its Stainless Steel Company and  Special Steel company passed the cleaner pro- duction review organized by Shanghai Munici- pality. The research well combines the theory and practice of  environment accounting, timely makes up the insufficiency  of China in the field of environment accounting application,  and is of great realistic and strategic significance to the study  and practices of Chinese environment accounting. Prof. Xia Dawei, President of Shanghai National  Accounting Institute / 39 38 Environment Management  Baosteel CSR Report Rooftop solar water heaters of the logistic company of  Baosteel Development Closed raw material silo of Ningbo Steel Closed raw material silo of Bayi Iron & Steel Whole-process Energy-saving and Environment-friendly Technology: 135MW Residue Energy Power Plant of Ningbo Steel Green Production Application of Energy Conservation  and Emission Reduction Technology Since its establishment, Baosteel aims at  world-class technology. It adopts internation- ally advanced energy conservation and emis- sion reduction technology to control pollutant  discharge from the source, improve energy and  resource utilization rate, constantly make prog- ress and build Baosteel a clean factory of inter- national standard.  Baosteel adopted a series of important  energy conservation and emission reduction  measures, such as dry coke quenching technol- ogy, coal moisture technology in coke oven,  recovery of sensible heat of sinter, sintering gas  waste heat recovery, power generation by waste  pressure of furnace, Blast furnace oxygen-en- riched coal spray technology, converter coal gas  cleaning and recovery technology, gas-steam  recycle power generation technology, and so on.  In the field of air pollution control, Bao- steel adopted high-efficient bag-type dust col- lector and electric dust collector, as well as effec- tive unorganized dust control measure to reduce  dust emission. It also controlled SO2 emission by  controlling the sulfur content in crude fuel and  installing stack gas desulfurization devices in sin- tering machines and power plants.  Baosteel also reduced consumption of  new water and emission of waste water through  dry coke quenching, converter coal gas dry  method dedusting and furnace coal gas dry  method dedusting technologies, and supply at  water quality, reuse of reclaimed water, rainwa- ter and sewage separation, reuse of moat water,  standard sewage discharge and so on.  Baosteel constantly enhanced the process  of solid by-products returning to production  through technical innovation and management  optimization, thus expanded the channels for  comprehensive social utilization, raised the  added value, and increased the utilization rate of  solid by-products.  Baosteel also developed green and low- carbon technology with independent IPR in fields  of thin strip continuous casting, sintering gas  recycling and emission reduction, and steel slag  cylinder processing.  Baosteels industrial enterprises with di- verse industries were not left behind in energy  conservation and emission reduction though  they had less energy demands. They eliminated  backward and adopted advanced technologies  or implemented innovation of energy conserva- tion technology to constantly improve energy  efficiency and reduce pollutant discharge.  The heat treatment factory of Baoling  Heavy under Baosteel Engineering & Technol- ogy Group Co., Ltd. installed special atmosphere  ovens and mid-frequency hardening equipment  to replace the six salt bath furnaces, and energy- saving med-frequency furnaces to replace the  power frequency melting furnace; its new office  building used energy-saving central air condi- tioning system; Jiangnan Rolls Company under  Baosteel Engineering & Technology used air- source heat pump (mainly used in the off-peak  at night) + solar collector (mainly used at day- time) to heat bathwater, which saved 60,000KWh  of electricity a year.  The logistic company of Baosteel Devel- opment installed solar water heaters on the roof  of the office building (see the picture) to replace  the procured steam water heating system, which  achieved energy conservation and cost-efficien- cy.  Anhui Wanbao Mining Co., Ltd. under  Baosteel Resources believed mining was also en- vironmental recovery and reconstruction. Strictly  in compliance with the National Program for  Eco-environmental Protection, it attached great  importance to eco-environmental protection and  implemented environmental recovery while min- ing to reduce or eliminate negative impact on  the eco-environment.  Shanghai Baoyi Can Co., Ltd under Bao- steel Metals carried out energy conservation  and emission reduction projects such as air  compressor waste heat utilization, cleaning dry- ing furnace frequency conversion, innovation  of ventilation system of production line and  green illumination, which could save 800 tons of  standard coal per year; Hebei Can Making Co.,  Ltd. also under Baosteel Metals used brine after  RO treatment in landscaping, which could save  18,000 tons of fresh water per year and stopped  direct discharge of brine.  Construction of Key Energy-saving  and Environment-friendly Projects Projects are the foundation of energy  conservation and emission reduction. In 2011,  Baosteel launched 130 key Environment-friendly  projects (incl. comprehensive use of resources)  and 73 key energy-saving projects, of which 71  Environment-friendly projects and 47 energy- saving projects were completed. This year also  saw signing of 23 contractual energy manage- ment projects with a total contract value of  RMB510 million.  The No. 1 Steel Plant directly under Bao- steel Co., Ltd. innovated its OG system, which  improved steam recycle up to 70kg/t and re- duced the dust content in exhaust gas to less  than 35mg/Nm3; the 1550 continuous annealing  unit were innovated for energy conservation;  Ningbo Baoxin completed energy conservation  innovation of its 1# rolling mill; the power plant  launched denitration innovation of 1/2# units  and completed that of No. 1 unit; Meishan Steel  and Baotong Iron & Steel were equipped with  desulfurization system for their sintering process.  To make full use of by-product coal  gas, Bayi Iron & Steel completed 4# 220t coal  power-blended boiler and 40MW by-product  coal gas backpressure power generator unit,  and C furnace TRT equipment; the coal yard in  the old plant was moved out, four closed coal  powder bunkers and two closed refined iron  powder bunkers were built to reduce dust pol- lution; launched construction projects of power  generation by waste heat of sintering machine  and intensive treatment and comprehensive  use of industrial sewage, sintering machine gas  desulfurization and coke oven ground dedusting  station in the old plant.  Ningbo Steel completed the 135MW  waste heat power plant and low-pressure steam  power generator unit which produced power by  surplus coal gas and produced steam for energy  conservation and emission reduction; completed  the closed raw material silo; and was pushing  forward the sintering machine gas desulfuriza- tion project and Ningbo Steel-Ningbo Baoxin  Energy Corridor project. Baoshan Branch of Baosteel Chemical  finished its Phase 1, 2, 3 of phenol waste water  postposition denitrification project to ensure  compliance with the new sewage discharge  standard for nitrogen content. Meishan Steel  optimized its onsite environmental protection  facilities to eliminate source of off-flavor and  protect health of the staff. To support project  environmental protection examination, it carried  out exhaust gas treatment in seven areas includ- ing the benzene products loading/unloading  area, oil depot grease groove and naphthol area,  innovated exhaust gas treatment facilities and  newly added six sets of environmental protection  facilities, which remarkably improved onsite en- vironment quality. Its exhaust gas discharge data  met the standards according to examination by  external qualification auditors.  Baosteel Development continuously im- proved comprehensive use of steel by-product  resources. In 2011, it expanded industrialization  projects including new building material, mag- netic material, waste oil regeneration; achieved  extensive use of steel slag products such as  refined powder, permeable brick, admixture and  shot blast material; constantly pushed forward  Iron and steel production process Main energy-saving technology/measure Main environmental  protection measures Environmental factors Pollutants Measures Raw material Coking Sintering Iron  making Steel making Hot rolling Cold rolling Power plant  Utility General energy-saving  technology such as frequency  conversion General energy-saving  technology such as energy  center, oxygen/nitrogen/argon  liquification, northern energy  corridor, frequency conversion General energy-saving  technology such as low heat  value coal gas combustion,  CCPP, frequent conversion General energy-saving  technology such as  stair-utilization of water, waste  heat recovery, Frequency  conversion General energy-saving technology  such as hot delivery/loading, steel  feed thermal insulation,  pulse-combustion, regenerative  combustion, high-effective thermal  insulation material, heating furnace  flue evaporation cooling, frequency  conversion General energy-saving technology  such as converter coal gas  recovery, steam making by  converter coal gas waste heat,  converter coal gas dry method  dedusting, regenerative ladle  baking, frequency conversion General energy-saving  technology such as thick bed  sintering, sintering waste heat  recovery, sintering gas waste  heat recovery, auto-control,  auto-ignition, frequency  conversion  General energy-saving  technology such as PCI, TRT,  oxygen-enriched blow, blast  heater oxygen-enriched  combustion, blast heater waste  heat recovery, furnace coal gas  dry method dedusting,  frequency conversion General energy-saving  technology such as CDQ,  CMC, auto-control coking  and frequency conversion Fume dust, SO2, NOx,  benzopyrene,  phenol-cyanogen waste water Atmospheric and  water environment Dedusting system, treatment  facilities for phenol-cyanogen  waste water from coking Atmospheric  environment Fume dust, SO2, NOx Sewage, COD Fume dust, SO2, NOx Fume dust, SO2, NOx, noise Fume dust, SO2, NOx, noise Fume dust Dedusting system Atmospheric and  water environment Atmospheric and  sound environment Atmospheric  environment Atmospheric environment Dedusting system, gas  desulfurization equipment,  low nitrogen combustion Dedusting system, waste  gas purification system,  sewage treatment system,  VOCs waste gas heat  combustion facility Dedusting system, low nitrogen  combustion, noise screen Water environment Water supply by quality levels,  water concatenation, water  reuse, rainwater and sewage  separation, standard sewage  discharge Fume dust, SO2, NOx Atmospheric environment Atmospheric environment Dedusting system, gas  desulfurization equipment Dedusting system, clean fuel Dedusting by water  spray, coagulator  spray, and dust screen Dust / 41 40 Environment Management  Baosteel CSR Report Energy Efficiency Renovation of Baosteel  Chemicals Benzene Hydrogenation  Facilities  Baosteel Chemicals Litol Benzene Hydrogenation  Equipment suffered high temperature and pressure, risk in  operation and high energy consumption. To ensure safe  production and energy conservation, it made innovation  in the Phase 1 Litol for energy conservation and emission  reduction by application of advanced low-pressure  hydrogenation technology, demonstrating its social  responsibility and meeting the business demands.  The innovated equipment brought good performances  in energy conservation and environmental protection.  According to statistics in 2009, Litol the energy consumption  per ton of chemical (excluding consumption by general  support) was 302.6kg standard coal, and after innovation  the figure dropped to 204.5kg, saving approximately 100kg  standard coal. The amount of waste water also dropped.  Statistics showed that about 2.13 tons of waste water was  produced per year during Litol operation, and it dropped to  1.18 tons after innovation, decreasing nearly 50%. Pollutant  generation per ton of product was also obviously cut down:  COD and nitrogenous substances generation per ton of  product dropped by 68.64% and 37.52% compared with  those generated by Litol.  The innovation in 2011 passed the engineering  examination of Shanghai Municipality, and was awarded  Shenan Cup of Engineering Construction of Shanghai for its  safety.  case B a o s t e e l  C h e m i c a l  P i o n e e r s  T e s t  Technology of Organics in Coking Waste  Water  After 20 minutes pre-treatment, the technology allows  accurate rating of about 200 volatile and semi volatile  organics in coking waste water without using any organic  solvent. Baosteel Chemical is the first Chinese coking  enterprise that pioneers the solid phase micro-extraction GC-MS test of organics in coking waste water. Compared  with traditional technology, it allows accurate, rapid, simple  and Environment-friendly test of various organics in coking  waste water.  By present, popular test methods in China suffer  restrictions. For instance: headspace gas chromatography  is simple and rapid but lacked in accuracy, and could only  be used for testing volatile organic constituents; purge and  trap is a deplete extraction, which is accurate but requires  complicated and expensive instruments, and is inapplicable  to onsite test; liquid-liquid extraction is the most simple way,  but is complicated in operation, takes long time, is hard in  automation and have to use a large amount of toxic organic  solvents; SPE, which is simple and requires few organic  solvents, is known of multiple processes, easy to cause loose  of constituents, and is limited to test of organics with low  volatility.  Compared to popular pre-treatment methods such as  liquid-liquid extraction, GC-MS requires only 20 minutes.  The rapid, simple and Environment-friendly technology is  able to test volatile and semi volatile organics, thus could  be extensively applied to coking enterprises. Without using  a single organic solvent in the entire process, it is indeed a  green technology.  case Nice environment in the plant area of Baosteel Co., Ltd. Landscaping volunteers  Desulfurization plaster house, Baosteel Development Landscaped plant area of Bayi Iron & Steel Comprehensive utilization of blast-furnace slag of  Baosteel Development completed at the end of  2011 new projects such as dry powder mortar, desul- furization plaster house and mobile heat supply.  It carried out environmental improvement cam- paign in 2010 and 2011, organized solid dump  treatment in plants and greatly improved the  environment. It was honored 2011 Influential  Enterprise of Resource Comprehensive Utiliza- tion by China Association of Resource Compre- hensive Utilization. Baosteel Co., Ltd. continuously pushed  forward its energy conservation plan. Based on  the successful plans for energy-efficient power  plant and high-efficient kiln and furnace in  the previous year, it developed and launched  four energy conservation plans, namely high- efficient electric machine, air compression  energy conservation, waste heat recovery and  utilization and recycled water system energy  conservation, as well as 40 projects, which are  expected to save 90,000 tons of standard coal.  Meishan Steel under Baosteel Co., Ltd. an- alyzed potential points in fields of electric sys- tem, coal gas system, oxygen, nitrogen and  argon system, air compression and others to  identify objectives and measures for harmonious  development of the society and the enterprise. It  developed the 12th Five-year Plan for Innovation  of Energy and Environmental Protection Tech- nologies which identified 175 energy conserva- tion and emission reduction projects to support  the improvement of energy and environmental  protection systems during 12th Five-year Plan.  Environmental Landscaping Baosteel Co., Ltd. made efforts to improve  landscaping fruits in compliance with the 12th  Five-year Plan. The HQ developed the 2011- 2015 Plan for Green Land Improvement in the  Plants of Baosteel Co., Ltd. HQ. In 2011, the total  innovative green lands reached 111,300 square  meters, including 32,500 square meters of newly  added green lands. The Stainless Steel Division,  in spite of increasing land demand for produc- tion, made rational arrangement in the plant and  achieved a landscaped rate of nearly 30%, or an  area of 900,000 square meters. The Special Steel  Division since 2007 had implemented the annual  landscaping project to make a nice-looking plant  area, and had recorded newly added green lands  of 160,000 square meters, or a landscaped rate  over 30%.  In recent years, Bayi Iron & Steel had  invested over RMB10 million each year in land- scaping of neighboring barren hills, the plant  area and living areas. In 2011, it invested dozens  of millions yuan in a series of landscaping proj- ects such as phase 1 landscaping of a 30-hectare  area, dump landscaping and tailing dam land- scaping, and registered 54,000 participants in  volunteer tree planting, 62,000 square meters of  newly added green lands, and 442,600 planted  trees. Thanks to the efforts, the plant area and  living area saw a green coverage of 45.3% and  50.01% respectively.  In 2011, Ningbo Steel accelerated the  landscaping project in support of its new proj- ects. Landscaping tasks were enhanced in the  plant area, achieving 20,000 square meters of  new green lands and a green coverage of 23%.  / 43 42 Environment Management  Baosteel CSR Report Green Products Product Life Cycle Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a quanti- tative assessment of environment burden and  impact during the product lifecycle. It is an en- vironment management and accounting tool of  Baosteels environment management strategy,  and more importantly, a systematic idea and way  to support the strategy. Baosteels key research  project LCA-based research on the production  process and environmental friendliness of Bao- steels products is launched on this basis. The  projects included four R&D programs and 15  sub-programs involving 18 internal units of Bao- steel.  In 2011, Baosteel achieved breakthrough  in LCA research and the fruits were applied to  the environmental declaration of its products.  It also developed the rules for environmental  declaration, namely Iron & Steel Product Classi- fication Rules (PCR), and for the first time issued  environment declaration for its hot rolling, cold  rolling, hot galvanizing, electro-galvanizing, and  electrotinning products covering information of  production, transport and safe service, product  lifecycle, recycling and final disposal. The dec- larations were certified by the third party and  approved to use the green leaf label. The decla- rations provided domestic counterparts and the  public with verifiable and quantitative environ- ment performance data of iron and steel prod- ucts, and demonstrated the leading technology  and social responsibility of Baosteel.  Non-oriented silicon steel sheet is one of  the major materials for air-conditioner compres- sors, accounting 20% of the total cost. High- grade non-oriented silicon steel sheet could  obviously improve the efficiency and quality of  compressor. Silicon steel products with better  performance might slightly increase the environ- ment burden during the production process;  nevertheless, they would remarkably reduce that  during the service period. LCA provides a sys- tematic and scientific way to assess the energy  conservation and emission reduction result of  steel products with better performance.  In 2011, Baosteel cooperated with down- stream air-conditioner compressor makers in the  non-oriented silicon steel sheet air-conditioner  compressors whole process LCA. The findings  showed that a kilogram of silicon steel B35A300  increased carbon emission by 0.09% in produc- tion, but reduced that by 3.8% while applied to  air-conditioner compressors. Provide that the  annual production volume of B35A300 compres- sor was 1 million, the annual CO2 emission would  be reduced by 857,000 tons.  Environment-friendly Products Iron and Steel Products Environment-friendly products refer to the  products that can save the resources, lower the  consumption and reduce the pollutants emis- sion, and have a small negative influence on the  quality of environment and health of people.  Judging from the manufacturing process, the  environment-friendly products made of steel  & iron have the characteristics of low compre- hensive energy consumption and low carbon  emission; judging from the application, these  products have the characteristics of light weight,  easy processing, easy maintenance, non-toxicity  and innoxiousness, prolonged service life and  improved efficiency, etc. Note: (  )marks new products of 2011 Preventing global warming Reducing workload of environmental risk  management Creating a society of circular economy Saving energy and reducing CO2 emission Reducing workload of environmental protection  and hazardous chemical control Extend service life with recycling Automobile     Reduced weight and increased safety  High-strength sheets, wires and bars     Simplifying customers processing   technology  Laser welded plates  Hot-formed parts  Hydro-formed parts     Environment-friendly materials Lead-free hot-galvanized steel sheets Lead-free easy-cutting steel Chromium-free  galvanized sheet for automobiles     Reducing noise and vibration Composite damping plate     Prolonging service life and reducing wastes Hot galvanized high-strength steel (DP) Electro-galvanized high strength steel (TRIP, DP) Stainless steel for automobile exhaust systems High-strength weathering steel Food &  beverages     Reducing weight of beverage cans Reducing thickness of DI materials Home appliances     Simplifying customers processing technology  Pre-painted steel sheets for home appliances Electrical steel with self-bonding coating Hot-galvanized steel sheet with self lubricating  film     Improving motor efficiency High-efficiency non-oriented electrical steel     Materials containing no environmentally  hazardous substances Lead-free hot-galvanized steel sheet Chromium-free hot galvanized sheet for home  appliances Chromium-free galvanized sheet for home  appliances Chromium-free hot Al-Zn-coated sheet for  home appliances Chromium-free pretreated pre-painted sheet  for home appliances     Prolonging service life and reducing wastes Hot-dip Al-Zn coated series products Hot galvanized series products Electro-galvanized series products Pre-painted series products Antibacterial stainless steel Ferrite stainless steel for home electrical  appliances industry(  ) Power and energy     Improving the efficiency of power generation High-temperature high-pressure boiler pipe Stainless steel for hydropower service(  )     Improving the efficiency of energy transport High-strength high-ductility pipeline steel High- induction oriented electrical steel     Reducing energy consumption Stainless steel for solar energy generation  service(  )     Improving the efficiency of power generation High-pressure boiler pipe  High-strength steel pipe Tubes for nuclear power generation service Stainless steel for nuclear power generation  service(  )     Prolonging service life Steel for chemical storage tanks Steel for petroleum storage tanks High-sulfur-resistance tubing and casing Construction  and civil  engineering     Improving the efficiency of construction High-strength high-ductility thick plate Thick steel plate for high-heat-input welding     Prolonging service life High-strength enameled steel High-strength structural steel for buildings High-tensile-strength wires Self-cleaning pre-painted steel sheet High-ductility high-strength structural steel pipe High-strength fire-resistant weathering steel High-durability pre-painted steel sheet High-strength ferrite stainless steel for building    faade  Others     Simplifying customers processing technology Non-quenched and tempered steel     Prolonging service life High-strength vulnerable stainless steel for    railway freight car Environmental benefits Downstream industries Silicon steel sheet production Service process of compressor B50AY-2 B35A300 22,644 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 39 21,786 17 Silicon steel sheet production (kg) Service process of compressor (kg) Total (kg) B50AY-2  39 22,605 22,644 B35A300 17 21,769 21,786 Silicon steel product used in one compressor: / 45 44 Environment Management  Baosteel CSR Report Baosteel products are commonly seen in our daily life covering home appli- ances, automobile, beverage cans, coins and tableware. Moreover, Baosteel involves  in many key engineering projects. Shanghai Tower Project Shanghai Tower sits in the central area of Lujiazui, Pudong of Shanghai, and  is the highest building under construction in China. After completion it would stand  with Jinmao Tower and Shanghai World Financial Center and form the super sky- scraper cluster. The Tower with its 632 meter height and distinctive shape would  also become a new landmark of the city. In 2011, Baosteel supplied 35,686 tons of  steel materials for the project, including 30,644 tons of thick plates, 940 tons of hot- galvanized steel, 1,125 tons of seamless steel pipes and 2,977 tons of other materi- als. By the end of December 2011, steel materials supplied by Baosteel had totaled  to 41,846 tons.  The GA plant Production tooling plant ARJ manufacturing plant Digital control plant The construction site The presentation drawing Construction Projects of Commercial Aircraft  Corporation of China, Ltd.  Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China, Ltd. (COMAC)  is a state-owned company approved by the State Council. With  a registered capital of RMB19 billion, it is headquartered in  Shanghai. COMAC would launch a group of support infrastruc- tures for large aircrafts in Beijing, Shanghai and Tianjin. In 2011,  its general assembly base was launched in Shanghai. Phase I of  the project included ten individual buildings totaling 270,000  square meters in floor space. The R&D Center Phase II and the  Service Center would also be commenced in this year. In 2011,  Baosteel supplied the project with 13,068 tons of steel materi- als, including 4,249 tons of thick plates, 3,978 tons of seamless  steel pipes, 400 tons of pre-painted steel sheets and 4,441 tons  of other materials. By the end of December 2011, steel materi- als supplied by Baosteel had totaled to 14,383 tons. By present,  the main structures of the ten individual projects of the three  main centers, including the GA plant, ARJ GA delivery center,  digital control center, plate work center, complex material plant  and parts assembly plant, had been completed in compliance  with the schedule.  Non-steel Products Baosteel not only develops environ- ment-friendly steel products, but also devotes  itself to comprehensive use of metallurgical  solid wastes. It employs various technologies  to recycle and re-process wastes generated  from iron and steel production to make envi- ronment-friendly products for architecture, il- lumination and home appliance industries and  achieves both economic and social benefits.  Coking Power plant  Utility Steel making Hot rolling Cold rolling Iron  making Process Solid waste generation Processing technology Product  Application Sintering Degrade and  lubricant blending Re-purification and  molecular distillation Re-purification and  molecular distillation Waste industrial  lubricant Degrade and  lubricant blending Cleaned oil and  rectified cleaned oil Re-purification and  molecular distillation Waste industrial  lubricant Degrade and  lubricant blending Cleaned oil and  rectified cleaned oil Re-purification and  molecular distillation Waste industrial  lubricant Degrade and  lubricant blending Cleaned oil and  rectified cleaned oil Positive pole of lithium  iron phosphate battery  Purification  Ultra-pure iron oxide Magnetic material,  lithium iron  phosphate material  High temperature  solid phase method Manganese/zinc/iron  oxide powder,  manganese/zinc/iron  oxide magnetic core Wide application to  modern electronics  industry, such as  illumination, home  appliances, communica- tions, electric-powered car Starter of new energy  automobile,  battery-powered bicycle,  motorized wheelchair,  electric-powered car,  wind/solar power  accumulator,  power-driven tools,  small-size medical  equipments, other small  electric appliances, and  automobiles  Re-purification and  molecular distillation Oxide treatment of iron  oxide, manganese oxide  and zinc oxide (mixing-  preheating-coarse  crushing- fine crushing-  spray granulation- forming-sintering-- grinding-sorting) Waste industrial  lubricant Degrade and  lubricant blending Cleaned oil and  rectified cleaned oil Re-purification and  molecular distillation Waste industrial  lubricant Degrade and  lubricant blending Cleaned oil and  rectified cleaned oil Re-purification and  molecular distillation Waste industrial  lubricant Desulfurized plaster,  annual emission of  100,000 tons Baking and calcination,  molding by casting Instant plaster wall plate,  plaster powder series  Internal/external wall  plate, floor plate, roof  boarding of buildings in  architecture and  architectural decoration Iron oxide, about 0.4% of steel production  Degrade and  lubricant blending Re-purification and  molecular distillation Re-purification and  molecular distillation Waste industrial  lubricant Degrade and  lubricant blending Cleaned oil and  rectified cleaned oil Re-purification and  molecular distillation Waste industrial  lubricant Degrade and  lubricant blending Cleaned oil and  rectified cleaned oil Slag powder, special  admixture, concrete,  cement, etc. Various cements, regular  and special concretes,  sand pulp, etc. Masonry mortar,  plastering mortar, floor  mortar, grout, reinforce  and repair mortar, etc. Masonry mortar, plastering  mortar, floor mortar, grout,  reinforce and repair  mortar, etc. Re-purification and  molecular distillation Baking and milling to  specific fineness  Melted blast furnace slag Grading steel slag to  take place of sand and  used for production of  dry powder mortar Masonry mortar,  plastering mortar, floor  mortar, grout,  reinforce and repair  mortar, etc. Used for masonry,  plastering and flooring  in buildings;  equipment erection  and anchorage,  building reinforcement  and repair Steel slag, about 10-20% of steel production Quenching and tempering,  centrifugal fiber forming Mineral wool  product series slag concrete products,  wear-resisting  permeable steel slag  brick Fragmenting, magnetic  concentration, screen  classification, milling  and mixing, grouting,  extrusion forming,  maintenance Industrial equipment,  pipe, kiln and furnace, and  thermal insulation, fire  protection and noise  reduction for civil  buildings Commercial concrete  admixture; park path,  sidewalk,  gym/stadium  pavement;  flood/wave  protections in river  embankment  Blast furnace granulated  slag products - Blast  furnace slag and powder  instead of cement for  production of dry powder  mortar Waste industrial  lubricant Blast furnace granulated slag, about  30-40% of iron production Raw material / 47 46 Environment Management  Baosteel CSR Report Green Industry Green Performance < Note 1 > Baosight Software: Energy Center  Technology Baosight Software, the subsidiary of Bao- steel Engineering & Technology Group(BSEG)  has accumulated rich experience in energy man- agement system in steel industry. By virtue of its  modern monitoring and information technology,  its energy center technology manages to con- duct all-round monitoring and management on  actual energy performance, energy plan, energy  balance and consumption analysis through gath- ering, processing, analysis and overall scheduling  of onsite energy data. In recent years, the tech- nology was introduced  and applied to Chinese  steel industry and made great achievements in  energy saving and emission reduction. In view  of the tougher situation of energy saving and  emission reduction in China, building materi- als, chemical and heavy equipment industries  of are actively seeking for energy conservation  and emission reduction in an information-based  way. Baosight Software has grasped the market  opportunity and explored business of trans- sector energy management system. In 2011, the  energy management system of China First Heavy  Industries was put into operation. Undertaken  by Baosight Software, this was a model project  of energy conservation and emission reduction  in Chinese heavy equipment industry, as well as  the first energy management project by Baosight  Software in this sector.  Baosteel Energy: Contractual Energy  Management Shanghai Baosteel Energy Technology Co.,  Ltd. (Baosteel Energy), a new company engaging  in business of energy saving and emission reduc- tion, centered on its business principle of re- source integration, mode design, system devel- opment set in early 2011, reviewed its business  lines and identified four business areas namely  energy management consultant, waste heat  and energy recovery and utilization, energy- efficient blast blower and pump and energy- efficient building.  In January 2011, Baosteel Energy regis- tered with NDRC as a national energy-saving  service, and became a member of EMCA. In this  year, the Company provided Baosteel and ex- ternal users with professional solutions and ser- vices in recovery and utilization of waste heat &  Green Production Performance In 2011, Baosteel continued to implement the energy conservation  and emission reduction spirit of the central government and the Group,  spared no efforts to push forward various tasks and successfully fulfilled  the annual plan. In this year, comprehensive energy consumption per  ton steel dropped by 5kg standard coal compared with that of the an- nual plan, energy consumption per RMB10,000 output value dropped by  4.5%, the amount of save energy exceeded 30% on a year-on-year basis,  and emission of SO2 and COD lowered by 19.6% and 31% respectively.  energy, energy-efficient blast blower and pump  and energy-efficient building. It implemented 23  contractual energy management projects with  a total expected investment of RMB300 million,  which is equivalent to saving 106,000 tons of  standard coal and reducing carbon emission by  275,600 tons.  Meanwhile, in view of the brand new busi- ness mode of contractual energy management,  Baosteel Energy organized both internal and  external resources for the research of business  mode of contractual energy management, which  was of great significance to unifying understand- ing of contractual energy management, standard  operation, improving operation efficiency, and  promoting the in-depth development of energy  saving and emission reduction task.  In 2011, the pilot implementation plan for  remanufacturing of the Industrial Technology  Service Company under BSEG was approved by  the Ministry of Industry and Information Tech- nology, marking the Companys new progress  into industrialized remanufacturing in roller and  copper plate sector after it had become one of  the first pilot enterprise of remanufacturing in  electrical and mechanical industry.  Steel-structured Building In July 2005, Baosteel officially partici- pated in the Living Steel project of the Interna- tional Iron and Steel Institute. (which is world  steel Association now) For years, the team of  Baosteel has established and kept improving the  complete technology system of steel-structured  housing through the rotation development  of scientific research and engineers. In 2009 it  undertook the all-steel-structured housing pro- gram (75,000 square meters) of Happy Home  in Dujiangyan; in 2010 it undertook the reloca- tion housing project (72,000 square meters) in  Tiexi District of Shenyang; technical level of its  independently developed steel shear wall and  panel joint was reviewed and approved by the  Ministry of Housing and Urban-rural Develop- ment and local Administration of Housing and  Urban-rural Development, and were applied to  the steel-structured demonstration communities  respectively in Dujiangyan and Wuhan, and won  nine national patents (seven approved).  Steel-structured buildings are pre-fabri- cated, and could shorten the construction period  by 1/3-1/2 compared with traditional buildings.  Since the panel walls are not load bearing space  of the buildings is divided flexibly. Thus, under  equal conditions; it could increase the useful  floor area by 3-8% compared with concrete  structures. Construction of steel structure lowers  CO2 emission by 20-40% compared with tradi- tional structures. The main structure could be  100% recycled, and save resources to avoid envi- ronmental pollution by mass construction wastes On July 18, 2011, Baosteel established  Baosteel Building System Integration Co., Ltd.  was established based on integration of in- ternal steel structure civil architectural design,  R&D, engineering and procurement resources.  Baosteel Building System Integration Co., Ltd.  engages in building the industrial chain of steel  structure buildings, making municipal buildings  in an industrialized way, and realizing the dream  of building houses like cars.  Innovative mode on Contractual Energy Management Model of Baosteel Architecture  Green Milestones  For year, Baosteel and its subsidiaries made great achievement in energy  saving and emission reduction and won extensive recognition of the society. Honors in 2011: Baosteel, advanced central enterprise of energy saving and emission reduc- tion during the 11th Five-year Plan by SASAC Baosteel ranked No. 359 on the 2011 World 500 Green Enterprises orga- nized by Newsweek and two world leading research institutes  Baosteel Co., Ltd, 2010 Ten Best Enterprises of Resource Reutilization in  Shanghai Ningbo Baoxin, Stainless Steel Division of Baosteel Co., Ltd, 2010 Energy  Conservation Model of Beilun District of Ningbo  Note 1: Figures for compre- hensive use rate of solid wastes  are absolute values, while all  other values are based on the  corresponding values of 2010. Note 2: indices in the table,  except Comprehensive use  of solid waste, are based on  indices of 2010; Ningbo Steel  in 2010 basically completed  its supportive construction  for production line, and the  statistic data are gradually com- parable. Ningbo Steel is trans- forming its business line from  low-end products to mid-and  high-end products with higher  value added. As the product  specification is expanding, the  energy consumption is slightly  increasing due to intensive pro- cessing. Industry and finance integration service Benefit sharing Energy-saving solutions Bank  and  trust Combining  industry and  finance Linking  customer  channel Integrating  technical  solutions ESCo responsibility =  integrating key  resources, building key  processes Share due value Provide individual  services Share due value Provide individual  services Insurance  and  securities Other  financial  services Individual  technology Individual  product Individual  service Energy saving  customer 100 89.85 88.84 100 146.21 159.75 100 81.28 68.95 100 73.50 69.17 100 53.41 47.64 100 109.49 89.79 70.51 73.50 69.17 100 99.56 100 124.82 100 102.97 100 151.26 100 129.88 100 83.33 90.33 93.77 2009 2010 2011 Green Performance of Baosteel Co., Ltd. (unit: %) Green Performance of Bayi Iron & Steel (unit: %) Green Production Performance of Ningbo Steel  < Note 2 > (unit: %) 100 96.64 98.55 Comprehensive energy  consumption per ton steel 100 99.93 113.81 Total amount of  waste energy Total amount of  waste energy 100 97.46 98.38 Fresh water consumption per  ton steel Fresh water consumption per  ton steel Fresh water consumption  per ton steel 100 61.71 50.86 CO2 emission per  ton steel  CO2 emission per  ton steel  100 88.84 83.74 COD emission per  ton steel COD emission  per ton steel 98.26 98.58 98.81 Comprehensive utilization  ratio of solid wastes Comprehensive utilization  ratio of solid wastes 100 91.65 88.75 Fume dust per  ton steel Fume dust per ton  steel Comprehensive energy  consumption per ton steel Total amount of  waste energy CO2 emission per  ton steel  COD emission  per ton steel Comprehensive utilization  ratio of solid wastes Fume dust per  ton steel Comprehensive energy  consumption per ton steel / 49 48 Environment Management  Employees are the foundation for a company to last. We regard human resources as the No.1  resource, uphold the people-first concept, and make one of the three major visions of Baosteel as to  become an exemplary company where employees develop together with the Corporation. With the  objectives of maximizing corporate values and promoting the all-round development of employees, we  have integrated employee development into the corporate strategic development plan, continued to  push forward personal development and corporate development in a balanced way, actively explored  effective means of human resources development management, coordinated the development of three  types of talents (talents for operation and management, technical talents, and talents with operating  skills), and created a favorable environment where talents can stand out and achieve their best perfor- mance.  Baosteel actively encourages the atmosphere for learning in the Group and among its teams,  commit itself to the construction of an employee development and training system that is of multiple  levels, various categories, and project-based, and provides a broad platform for the learning, training  and development of employees through the seminars for decision makers, the Daily Progress Future En- trepreneur Training camp, the Golden Apple Program, the Green Apple Program, the safety experience  training program, and the fresh graduate training program. Through continuous operation, optimization  and improvement, we have shaped a management system that is responsible for overall planning with  clear labor division and an operation mechanism that is well regulated and organized and efficient, and  chosen, developed and applied an integrated incentive and regulating mechanism. Meanwhile, Baosteel  attaches great importance to the construction of the training system, secures investment in training,  continues to strengthen relevant infrastructure and resources such as the network of training bases  (represented by Baosteel Talent Development Institute and Baosteel (Changshu) Leadership Develop- ment Center), trainers and training materials, and has preliminarily set up an e-learning system covering  all the subsidiaries at home and abroad. In 2011, Baosteel earmarked a total of RMB136 million for em- ployee training.  Applying advanced information technologies, Baosteel and its subsidiaries have been able to  identify the training needs of each employee, and carried out the training plans based on the Internet.  According to the corporate development strategy, the capabilities required for each post and the em- ployees career development needs, in combination with the annual employee performance appraisal,  Baosteel and its subsidiaries have formulated training plans of different levels and different categories  every year, to ensure that employees have access to pertinent training at different phases of their career  development. Baosteel attaches extreme importance to the relevance and effect of trainings, and contin- ues to scale up training programs, and improve their quality and effect. By combining self-training with  training lectures, training on job-related skills and training on specialized knowledge, we have vigor- ously carried out training programs in various forms, including on-job training, off-job training, training  at home and abroad, theoretical and practical training, striving to meet the multi-level training needs of  employees and improve their work skills and performance. Baosteel Talent Development Institute and  the training institutions of relevant subsidiaries of Baosteel have been committed to innovative training,  and continued to optimize the training content and improve the ways of training, so as to achieve better  effects. Meanwhile, we have also strengthened cooperation and exchange with prestigious universities  at home and abroad, research institutions and international enterprises in employee training, invited  well-known scholars and experts from home and abroad to have face-to-face communication with our  employees, and actively explored more training channels for employees.  / 51 50 Employee Performance EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE Golden Apple Program, an ongoing human  resources strategic plan in Baosteel, which is  designed to use 8 to 10 years to bring up a  batch of leading persons in technology inno- vation with good performance in the interna- tional arena and international influence.  It will continue to be a great undertaking for Bao- steel, which just celebrated its 30th anniversary, in the  next decade. The program has made 40 stage achieve- ments, and generated an economic benefit of RMB 981  million.   Category  2009 2010 2011 Total number of employees 124,132 118,500 116,702 Number of female employees 27,267 25,199 24,275  Ratio of management staff (%) 8.7% 8.9% 8.84%  Number of new employees 1,212 2,292  4,684   Ratio of new employees  1.0% 1.9% 4.5%  Number of resigned employees 1,175 1,378 1,414   Ratio of resigned employees 1.1%  1.3% 1.4%  Ratio of female in senior managers 8.3% 10.0% 10.3%  Ratio of local employees in overseas  affiliates 33.8% 37.8% 42.0% Number of dispatched staff 87,557 68,443 17,455 Training input (RMB1 million) 93.645 100.388 136.2489 Person-hours trained  - 78.2 111 Per capita training input (RMB) 885 929 1317 Total remuneration (RMB1 billion ) 8.89  9.61 10.94 Age structure:  Under 35  36-45  46-55  Above 56 34.8% 37.3% 26.1% 1.7% 33.2% 36.5% 27.7% 2.6% 32.8% 35.1% 28.8% 3.3% Education structure:  Postgraduate  University  Junior college  Secondary Technical School and  Lower 3.5% 18.6% 26.2% 51.7% 4.5% 19.4% 27.3% 48.9% 4.8% 20.4% 27.8% 47.1% Structure of professional titles:  Intermediate & senior titles  Senior skilled workers < Note >  Others  12.5% 26.7% 60.8% 13.0% 26.2% 60.8% 13.9% 27.9% 58.2% Employee Development Platform  Complete Employee Development Systems  In 2011, Baosteel conducted satisfaction survey for employee development. Employees were  randomly selected to participate in the survey and Baosteel Talent Development Institute served as an  independent third-party evaluator. In 2011, the employee development satisfaction scored 76.32 points,  within the employee development satisfaction zone (70 to 90 points).  Content of the Employee Development Satis- faction Survey:  Analysis will be made against five indicators of two dimensions: I. The report 1. Faithfulness Whether the employee development report is faithful 2. Acceptance Whether employees accept and agree with the report  II. Work related to employee development 3. Matching  How the work related to employee development match the  relevant strategy  4. Effectiveness Organization, planning, implementation, feasibility and actual  effect of the work related to employee development 5. Satisfaction Satisfaction with the specific method, process and effect of the  work related to employee development Note: Senior skilled workers - personnel with senior skills or above Launch of Baosteel (Changshu) Leadership Development Center Green Apple Program We continued the Green Apple Program  targeting at young high-potential talents. In  2011, we designed and formulated the Green  Apple Study Manual; set up the system of study  compact and letter of commitment; created the  study map; optimized the study plan, action plan  and overseas seminar/job training plans; adopt- ed the credit accumulation system; launched the  third centralized training of the second session  of the Green Apple Program; planned and se- lected candidates for the seminar in Taiwan; and  held the seminar opening ceremony and the first  training of the third session of the Green Apple  Program. up to now Baosteel has developed a  team of 208 Green Apple taleuts from 3 sessions  in all Golden Apple Program In 2011, the Golden Apple team orga- nized, planned and participated in several aca- demic conferences at home and abroad, and  communicated with many academic institutions  and groups. Baosteel set up a platform for the  internal communication of the Golden Apple  team, the Golden Apple seminar, and the Golden  Apple meeting rooms. Meanwhile, we were also  concerned about the harmony and happiness  of the employees family life, and organized ac- tivities such as the Journey of Intimacy: Golden  Apple Happy Family Weekend Camp. Through  the concerted efforts of the Golden Apple team  and the cooperation from corporate depart- ments, the Golden Apple Program has made 40  achievements and generated economic benefits  of RMB981 million. Among them, the technolo- gies for energy conservation, environmental  protection and green manufacturing will bring  tremendous social benefits to the Corporation.  Daily Progress Training Camp To better guide and promote these trans- formations and foster the captain leaders Bao- steel yearns for, in the early 2011, we reviewed  the performance of talents we had and those  with potentials, carefully selected 18 high-level  reserve talents and three young talents with high  potential, and organized the Baosteel Daily Prog- ress Future Entrepreneur Training Camp, which  set off in July 2011. The trainees will receive three  years of training in a brand new mode. With  group study once a quarter and various forms of  self-study in between, we try to inspire the train- ees, broaden their vision and achieve the desired  effect by means of learning from practice, men- tality cultivation, exchange with senior manage- ment, meetings with entrepreneurs and lectures  given by experts.  We have launched two group study ses- sions according to the plan, and multiple self- study sessions with rich content and practical  value. During these sessions, trainees attended  lectures given by economist Zhang Weiying  and philosopher Wang Bo, held talks with Zong  Qinghou, CEO of Wahaha Group, and learned to  practice Taiji and appreciate the tea ceremony.  Launch of Baosteel (Changshu) Lead- ership Development Center Baosteel (Changshu) Leadership Develop- ment Center (Shanghu Village, Baosteel) is the  base of leadership training, a valley for research  and development, a platform for the coopera- tion with strategic partners for innovation, and  a showcase of the brand image. The Center was  officially put into use on April 1, 2011, to host  the 8th decision maker seminar themed Control  over the Complex Environment. By the end of  December 2011, it had hosted 147 training ses- sions and meetings, and received 6,714 people.  Philip Kotler, a famous guru of management  science and Father of Marketing, and Noel Tichy,  a global leadership guru and professor at the  University of Michigan came to the Center to  give lectures in 2011. Shanghu Village of Bao- steel was widely acclaimed for its success in  hosting of many meetings and training sessions  including meetings of Baosteel Group, its board  of directors and board of supervisors, Baosteel  Employee Forum on Economic and Technologi- cal Innovation, Baosteel-Mitsui Management Ex- change, Baosteel-China Steel (Taiwan) Exchange  on Human Resources, Baosteel seminar for man- agement, and serial job trainings for manage- ment staff.  Baosteel CSR Report / 53 52 Employee Performance  Baosight Set up the Personnel Training Ca- pability Mode Baosight set up the project manager capability model  and the evaluation mechanism for talent training in light  of the reality, maintained the qualifications throughout  the process from qualification review, employment and  authorization to performance appraisal, and developed the  capability development mode with closed-loop manage- ment and the hierarchy of project manager, competent pro- ject manager, and senior project manager. Meanwhile, we  promoted the PMP certification process in the United States,  improved the comprehensive project management abilities  of project managers through training, learning, communica- tion, practice, and gradually formed a professional team  of project managers up to international standards through  training, learning, exchange and practice. We have by now  186 project managers with PMP qualifications, 20 with IPMP  qualifications, 46 with MIIT qualifications, and 24 with grade- one constructor qualifications. As to certification within the  company, 92 have been certified with qualifications as senior  project managers, 204 with qualifications as competent pro- ject managers, 553 with qualifications as project managers  and 116 qualifications as project managers of subsidiaries.  case Training of Integrated Engineers In response to the increasingly fierce homogeneous  competition of the market, to improve the core product  competitiveness of the company, strengthen the leading and  innovative edge of the technology and realize the strategic  development of the company as an industry leader, Baoshan  Iron & Steel Co., Ltd., considering the long process and  interdisciplinary nature of iron & steel manufacturing, launched  the training program for technical personnel who were familiar  with regional conditions, working procedures and different  areas (whole-process engineers).  The Integrated engineer training program, with products  as the main line, projects as the base, two-way training as the  major means and the three-year improvement plan as the  grip, systematically developed the compound capabilities of  technical personnel, and helped improve the competitiveness  of core products of the company. Twelve employees from  the steelworks, cold rolling mills, manufacturing division,  Baosteel-NSC/Arcelor Automotive Steel Sheets, the Institute,  the steel pipe and steel bar division, Baosteel Stainless Steel  and Shanghai Meishan Iron & Steel received the third whole- process engineer training. The training program featured  two-way training, with products such as color coating,  automotive steel sheets and stainless steel as the main thread,  and centering on the increase of the yield of good color  coating materials for home appliances and the solving the  problems of steel materials of hot dip galvanized products.  The training program is expected to effectively solve the  systematic bottleneck to the products of the company and  make breakthroughs in minimizing the whole-process costs for  manufacturing products.  2009 2010 2011 Reasonable suggestions (10,000 pieces) 11.9 19.1 28.8 Benefits generated from implementation (RMB100 million) 20.2 23.34 27.74 Technical secrets formed  2,375 3,101 - Patents applied (accepted)  1,545 1,774 2,289 JK results  2,464 7,500 11,450 Note 1: Skill Buildup Plan Based on the practical abilities required for operation and  maintenance personnel, we determine the items and stan- dards in terms of basic qualities, skill extension, job-related  knowledge and operations, turn the operational skills of  employees into quantized indicators and improve the ability  of precise operation of personnel for operation and mainte- nance.  Note 2: TRIZ TRIZ is the initials of Teoriya Resheniya  Izobreatatelskikh Zadatch (Theory of the Solution of Inven- tive Problems). It is a knowledge-based systematic method- ology for solving inventive problems for human beings.  Note: starting from 2011, the number of technical secrets ceased to serve as an indicator.  Kong Liming Science and Technology In- novation Group and Wang Kangjian Inno- vation Studio  The national model worker and Contemporary Worker  Inventor Kong Liming is a technical expert in the transport  division of Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. and has long  ranked the first in terms of the number of on-job inventions  in Shanghai. In the past more than 20 years, he has dedi- cated himself to the job, worked hard to solve the problems  with all kinds of equipment, and has become an outstanding  representative of the economic technological innovation  campaign of Baosteel. Since the establishment of Baosteel  Kong Liming Science and Technology Innovation Group,  under the leadership of Kong, a large number of employees  with specialized knowledge and innovation capabilities like  Kong have emerged. So far, Baosteel has had 358 science  and technology innovation groups, with 3,500 group mem- bers and an ever increasing number of patents and technical  secrets.  In May 2011, Wang Kangjian Innovation Studio was  open, the first innovation studio in the field of cold-rolled  carbon steel in Baoshan Iron & Steel.  Wang Kangjian is a technical expert in the cold rolling  mill of Baoshan Iron & Steel, and has been working in the  mill since his joining Baosteel in 1979. He is an innova- tion leader in the field of cold rolled carbon steel and has  generated economic benefits of RMB213.6 million for the  company. In recent years, he has won the second prize of  National Science and Technology Progress Award and the  May 1st Labor Medal, and has been elected one of the top  ten worker inventors in Shanghai.  Wang Kangjian Innovation Studio will adopt the  master-apprentice operational mode, with employees with  innovation potentials chosen from the cold rolling mill to be  the apprentices of Wang Kangjian. The first three appren- tices are from the fields of technology, quality inspection  and equipment, and each signs a one-year apprenticeship  with Wang, with clear innovation objectives. According to  the cold rolling mill, they will actively create favorable condi- tions for the apprenticeship, and provide as many resources  and experiment opportunities as possible for the innovation  topics and projects of the studio.  case case Learning Platform for Employees The Baosteel e-Learning system was  launched in July 2000, and upgraded in October  2008 to cover all the employees. The system  supports online learning, virtual classrooms and  offline learning, providing a platform where the  employees can study whenever and wherever  they want to.  In 2011, 388 training programs were car- ried out through the Baosteel e-Learning system,  giving a total of 410 courses to 116,000 trainees.  Nearly 40% of the training programs of Baosteel  Talent Development Institute are wholly or partly  carried out through the e-Learning system.  After years of curriculum development,  Baosteel has developed a series of e-learning  courses with distinct features, such as party  construction and corporate culture, grassroots  management, steel products, steel production  process, case study of safety incidents, and hu- manistic cultivation. Nearly 70% of all the courses  were e-learning courses.  The e-learning system was awarded the  second prize of modernized management inno- vation of the metallurgical industry, the second  prize of modernized management innovation of  Shanghai, and the Best Virtual Classroom Ap- plication Prize of the China Enterprises and Infor- matization Forum.  First Baosteel Youth Business Plan  Competition to Push Forward Youth  Innovation and Efficiency Improve- ment Program To spot more enterprising youth, create  an atmosphere of innovation, inspire the youths  enthusiasm in entrepreneurship, and foster their  abilities, the Communist Youth League (CYL)  Committee, the Planning and Development De- partment, and the Human Resources Department  of Baosteel jointly launched the first Baosteel  Youth Business Plan Competition. Featuring a  series of programs such as lectures on entre- preneurship, preliminary competition and on- site oral defense of the plan, the IPO Family of  Entrepreneurs pre-competition exchange, the  final, and the luncheon for the winning team and  corporate leaders, the competition attracted 45  teams comprising nearly 200 young employees  from Baosteel subsidiaries in Shanghai. Youth Career Guidance Program CYL Committee of Baosteel compiled and  revised the Growth Diary, and distributed copies  to newly-recruited college graduates, to record  their growth in the Corporation. Through the  meetings of new employees with administra- tive and Party leaders of the Corporation and  growth report meetings of the new employees  organized by grassroots CYL organizations, we  helped guide the young employees to do a good  job on their post, fit into the corporate culture  and values, and improve their capabilities.  Technological Innovation of Em- ployees  Innovation of Specialized Technical  Personnel Baosteel continued to develop its techno- logical innovation system, upheld the strategy of  developing leading technology, and was commit- ted to the innovation of high-end products and  core technological research and development.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co, Ltd. takes the lead in  the Baosteel Group in terms of technological  innovation in the steel industry, and continues  to produce highly competitive  steel products,  meeting the needs of national economic devel- opment and the demand for materials posed by  major construction projects. Meanwhile, Baosteel  has actively pushed forward the technological  collaboration and sharing across the Group,  planned and organized technological promotion  and support for steel units such as Ningbo Iron  & Steel Co., Ltd. and Xinjiang Bayi Iron & Steel  Co., Ltd., to improve the manufacturing capacity  and expand the product mix, improve the overall  technological level of the steel industry, and sup- port the enterprise in a harsh market.  Tailored to the needs of high-level techni- cal personnel, trainings such as Golden Apple  Team Seminar and Close to Academicians and  Users were organized to foster outstanding  technical personnel with strong abilities to lead  the technological development, in research  and development and making technological  breakthroughs; Top 10 thematic seminars, cross- regional and cross-unit staff exchange were  offered to backbone technical personnel, to  improve their technical competency and abili- ties to solve technical problems; training on the  basic technological knowledge, basic tools and  basic methods were provided to new technical  personnel to reinforce their skills. Meanwhile, we  pushed forward the training of whole-process  engineers, and continued the Technical Com- petency Training Camp program, to improve  the employees overall ability to solve technical  problems and make technical innovations.  As to the training of skilled personnel,  we focused on the improvement of practical  capabilities required for technical posts, and  further carried out the Skill Buildup Plan < Note 1  >; according to the competency of personnel in  charge of fixed point inspection of equipment,  improve their skills from five major aspects,  namely, professional attainment, professional  skills for fixed point inspection of equipment,  equipment management theory, practical experi- ence in equipment inspection and fixing, and  exploration of skills required for the post; and or- ganized the training camp for highly skilled per- sonnel centering around four modules, namely,  professional attainment and improvement, TRIZ  < Note 2 > basics and application, lecture-learning  and practices, and exploration, training and ex- changes.  Blue-collar Innovation Over the years, Baosteel has vigorously  pushed forward the technological innovation of  employees and has scored remarkable results.  Among the 6.2 patents generated in Baosteel  on average per day, 48% are made by frontline  employees; among the six technical secrets gen- erated on average per day, 40% are achieved by  frontline employees. Among all the 10 workers  winning the National Prize for Progress in Sci- ence and Technology around the country, three  are from Baosteel. In addition, two Baosteel  workers have been awarded the honorary title  of Contemporary Worker Inventor of China, 11  Shanghai Worker Inventor, and 15 Baosteel  Worker Inventor. During their inspection tour in  Baosteel, inspectors from Shanghai Federation of  Trade Unions spoke highly of the achievements  in technological innovation of our employees,  and termed it as Baosteel phenomenon. Employee Innovation Studio  By 2011, the Group had boasted 66 inno- vation studios.  At the opening ceremony of the 2011  National Science and Technology Week and  Shanghai Science and Technology Festival,  Shanghai Federation of Trade Unions conferred  the tablets for the first 20 innovation studios of  model workers. Baosteel Kong Liming Mechani- cal & Electrical Technological Innovation Studio  is coded No.1 among this batch of innovation  studios.  Employee Forum on Economic Tech- nological Innovation To sum up experiences, absorb strengths  from others, encourage the economic and tech- nological innovation of employees, and lay a  solid foundation for the second undertaking,  scientific development and capability strength- ening of Baosteel, on August 25, the 2011 Bao- steel Employee Forum on Economic Technologi- cal Innovation, with the theme of Innovation  and Corporate Competitiveness, was held in  Baosteel (Changshu) Leadership Development  Center. It attracted about 160 representatives  from domestic and international prestigious  enterprises and experts to share their results  and experiences in employees innovation, and  explore the new approach of making innovations  under the new circumstances.  Technological Innovation Achieve- ments Baosteel planned and/or participated in  the Shanghai Exhibition of Technological Innova- tion of Employees, the 20th National Exhibition  of Inventions, the 63rd iENA Nuremberg, and  the 5th International Warsaw Invention Show  (IWIS). In domestic and international exchange  programs, the employee innovation results of  Baosteel attracted extensive attraction and won  high praise. At the National Exhibition of Inven- tions, among the 146 participating programs of  Baosteel, 27 won the gold award, 26 the silver  award and 45 the bronze award; at the iENA  Nuremberg, Baosteel competed with nearly 800  inventions from over 30 countries and regions in  the world and won three gold awards, account- ing for 50% of the total gold awards won by the  Chinese delegation; at the IWIS, Baosteel won  seven gold awards and one silver award with its  eight participating programs.  Setting up Role Models Baosteel grants the Golden Bull Award  and the Silver Bull Award annually as an ac- knowledgement of those employees who are  hard-working and dedicated, show integrity and  have made outstanding contribution to the new  round of development of Baosteel. In 2011, after  several rounds of recommendation and apprais- al, 20 employees were awarded the Golden Bull  Award and 100 the Silver Bull Award. Among  the award winners, more than 90% are frontline  employees or low-level technical and business  management personnel.  The annual Baosteel Persons of the Year  Awarding Ceremony is held at the beginning or  end of a year to acknowledge employees with  outstanding contribution, review and sum up  the work highlights of the past year, and dem- onstrate the progress, innovations and values of  Baosteel employees in the second undertaking.  It has become a cultural brand program of Bao- steel with lasting influence.  The 2011 Baosteel Persons of the Year  Awarding Ceremony focused on the corporate  strategy, central tasks, and the corporate vi- sion of employees developing together with  the Corporation. It consisted of four chapters:  Products Science & Technology, Service  Value, Environmental Protection Values, and  Corporate Culture Vigor. It reviewed the touch- ing moments of 2011, demonstrated the out- standing performances each industry and sec- tion feels proud of and deems worthy of sharing  and showed the dedication of our employees,  including: representatives of blue-collar innova- tion who continue to make innovations, realize  their values, and develop together with the  Corporation; the production, sales and research  teams who closely cooperate with each other to  solve problems and make outstanding achieve- ments to realize the glories and dreams of Bao- steel; business developers who are passionate  for exploring business across the country; and  young employees who are energetic, passionate,  and versatile.  Baosteel CSR Report / 55 54 Employee Performance  insurance and other supplementary benefits for  its employees, such as annuity and Employee  Health Plan, as well as staff meals, health screen- ing, and labor protection necessities. 137 member companies of Baosteel took  part in the Baosteel Annuity Program in 2011.  In accordance with related rules, all Baosteel  employees except those who had worked in the  Corporation for less than one year received their  annuities. In 2011, Baosteel subsidiaries in Shanghai  gave out supplementary housing reserve fund to  their employees, making it easier for them, espe- cially the young employees, to buy their homes  and repay the loans. Remuneration and Welfare Remuneration & Welfare Policy Baosteel has adopted a flexible incentive  mechanism under which multiple long-term  incentives are preferred to the previous immedi- ate single-time incentives, and provided more  welfare choices for employees, so that all the  employees were inspired to make further im- provements in their career life. The Corporation promoted the sunshine  compensation and benefits management with  the e-HR < Note 1 > system and thus realized the  closed-loop management for the distribution,  statistics and monitoring of remuneration. Em- ployees may log in this self-service system to ac- cess the information on personal compensation  and benefits. Baosteel has adhered to the principle of  determining remuneration according to employ- ees performance and abilities and based upon  the assessment of post value. Moreover, in line  with the market trends, Baosteel provided satis- factory remuneration for all kinds of talents. In keeping with the related national and  local policies and laws, Baosteel paid in full all  the mandatory social insurance premiums and  welfare for all employees in a timely manner,  including basic pension, basic medical insurance,  unemployment insurance, work-related injury  insurance, maternity insurance, housing reserve  fund, and strictly complied with the paid vaca- tion system. In light of the unique features of the  enterprise, Baosteel also bought group casualty  Living allowance Educational assistance Medical relief Amount  (RMB 10,000) Person-times  helped Amount  (RMB 10,000) Person-times  helped Amount  (RMB 10,000) Person-times  helped 2009 1,282 24,037 104 1,401 511 2,283 2010 1,182 24,203 91 902 847 2,070 2011 1,732 24,647 105 1,190 865 3,683 Total 4,196 72,887 300 3,493 2,223 8,036 Difficulty Assistance Baosteel provides assistance to employees and  their families through a long-term mechanism,  and the standards for such assistance are ad- justed dynamically according to change of the  overall situation. Cultural & Sports Activities In 2011, Baosteel held its Ninth Art Festival  for Employees. The festival was composed of five  parts: the Sixth Wonderful Employees Team  Art Contest, Songs to the CPC Singing Festival  in Commemoration of the 90th anniversary of  the Communist Party of China, Wonderful Bao- steel Story-telling Gathering, Arts at Baosteel  Album of Calligraphy and Seal-cutting Works by  Baosteel Employees, and A Baosteel in Colors  Painting Album. According to available statistics,  there were altogether over 30,000 people taking  part in these activities. Baosteel organized 35 courses and lec- tures on basic digital photography, yoga, and vo- cal music in 2011, and received more than 1,500  person-time of participants. Teams Hand-in- hand sports series was launched in March 2011,  with one sport as the theme event every month.  By now, thousands of employees have taken part  in practices or contests of tennis, badminton,  billiard, Chinese chess, swimming, Joker First (or  Daguai Luzi, a poker game popular in China),  and board games. The Baosteel Cup Swimming  Contest was organized in July 2011 and more  than 200 employees from Baosteel member units  in Shanghai participated in the contest. Employee Health Plan Baosteel Employee Health Plan accom- plished two tasks in 2011: The plan was well  managed and provided various options to the  employees satisfaction. The online platform was  improved to be multifunctional, efficient and  convenient, providing premium quality services  for all the employees. By the end of 2011, 10 subsidiaries of Bao- steel Group in Shanghai had introduced the Em- ployee Health Plan, covering 60,779 employees  as stated on 31 December 2011, 14,539 more  than the previous year. A total of 39,054 employ- ees participated in fitness activities through the  Employee Health Plan, accounting for 64.25% of  the total. Twenty-five fitness centers in Shanghai  signed cooperation agreements with Baosteel,  11 more than the previous year. Good Life, an online service platform for  Baosteel Employee Health Plan was completed  and put into use in 2011. Baosteel employees  in Shanghai can log in the platform that incor- porates service, settlement and management to  access the information on their Health IC Cards. Happy Retirement Life Baosteel Senior Citizens College There were 146 classes under 38 majors  in Baosteel Senior Citizens College in 2011. New  students were enrolled for 29 majors into 79  classes, and 11 of these majors were new. Alto- gether, 6,043 person times studied in the college  throughout the year. The college received the  title of Advanced Group of Senior Citizens Edu- cation in Shanghai on the Working Conference  on Senior Citizens Education in Shanghai, and  was honored as Advanced Group in Promoting  Senior Citizens Education by China Association  of the Universities for the Aged (CAUA). The college conducted in 2011 Survey on  the Studying Needs by the Baosteel Retirees.  The college council passed The Development  Plan for Baosteel Senior Citizens College 2011- 2015, and compiled Keeping Healthy with the  Traditional Chinese Medicine and Everyday Eng- lish for Senior Citizens as teaching materials. Colorful Retirement Life The Seventh Baosteel Art Festival for Se- nior Citizens was successfully organized in 2011.  1,550 people participated in the performances  and exhibitions in 10 categories, including vo- cal music, dance, fashion, speech, drama, cal- ligraphy, paper-cutting, painting, photography,  and handicraft. The 5th Baosteel Healthy Seniors  Selection was conducted as well, and 42 retirees  were selected. The recreational rooms, clubs and Baosteel  Senior Citizens College are open to all retirees  in the community for free. The students of the  college and the Songtao Poem Club members  gave voluntary performances in the Yangxing  Community and Baoshan Senior Citizens Home.  The Baosteel retirees have been playing an active  role in the community cultural construction. Baosteel Committee for the Wellbeing of  the Youth has fostered a large number of talent- ed young employees through various activities,  such as lectures on the corporate culture and  Baosteel values, sessions to pass on work experi- ences, dissertation and oral defenses tutoring  and even match-making for single employees.  Baosteel Association of Senior Experts, Scientists  and Technicians established a platform for Bao- steel retirees to make new contributions in their  retirement. Note 1: E-HR E-HR incorporates advanced IT technology into human  resources management, and provides digital services for  the HR management in Baosteel. The company wit- nessed an improved efficiency and optimized process of  HR management with E-HR. The HR services have also  been enhanced. E-HR provides support for the decision- making process in the strategic HR management of  Baosteel. 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 2009 2010 2011 88.9 96.1 109.4 Total Remuneration (RMB100 million) Baosteel Employee Assistance Program  (EAP) Baosteel launched the Employee Assistance Program  (EAP) for all its overseas employees, to strengthen the con- nection between overseas employees and the Company,  and make their life better and easier. We distributed EAP  brochures and service cards among our overseas employees,  and provided them with internal and external EAP services,  including family aid, interpretation of the company policies,  HR services, and face-to-face or over-the-phone psychiatric  consulting, so that they may work without family worries  and feel relieved when working in a strange country or re- gion. At a critical point for its globalization, Baosteel Re- sources Co., Ltd. launched an Employee Development  Assisting Program (EDAP) for its overseas employees. The  program consisted of three parts: the overseas employee  supporting system, regular training sessions, and monthly  lectures and events. The company sent 50 sets of Consulting  Cards and 50 Love Parcels, held regular talks with its over- seas employees in over 200 phone calls. 250 person-times  of emails were also sent to the employees, and a dozen of  lectures and events organized. Through these efforts, the  company helped the overseas employees establish ap- propriate views of life and career development and relieved  their pressure, so that they and their families could work and  live healthily, happily and efficiently. case case Enjoy Your Happy Life Flexible Welfare  Program Baosteel Engineering & Technology Group Co., Ltd.  launched a flexible welfare program Enjoy Your Happy Life,  to satisfy varied needs of employees on different posts and  in different ages. This new flexible welfare program featured  core plus optional benefits for employees to choose, so  that all the employees could truly decide what to have for  their own welfare benefits. During the trial implementation,  employees could choose from seven options under three  catalogs, namely Healthy Me, Happy Family, and Colorful  Life. The tentative program will be further adjusted and im- proved according to employees requirements and feedback.  The flexible welfare program clearly presented the idea of  standing the employees test, and was human-oriented,  to meet the employees personal needs. The company tried  to improve the remuneration system with this program,  and had a more scientific, rational, efficient and competitive  incentive mechanism. Baosteel CSR Report / 57 56 Employee Performance  Employee Safety and Protection A companys focus on production safety represents a people-oriented corporate culture that  complies with laws and regulations and shows respects for scientific management. Baosteel has formed  the corporate culture of spirit of strictness and endeavor, road of learning and innovation, and aim to  be the best, and this also serves as the core of our safety management. Strictness on every detail is the  basic law for safety management in Baosteel, and indispensable for the prevention of accidents. Learn- ing and innovation as well as the aim to be the best is the driving force for the safety management in  Baosteel, and safety management means constantly fussing about safety issues. The aim to be the best  is the ultimate goal of safety management in Baosteel, and we have to exhaust every means to ensure  production safety. Our motto is Safety First, Zero Accident, and No Violation of Rules. Baosteel improved its Body Sense Safety Training Center to launch better-targeted safety training,  tested the effectiveness of the occupational health and safety management system through standard- ized safe production, and carried out safety inspections especially in key areas. We also made efforts  to smooth compliance management of ongoing projects, make necessary rectifications, and introduce  new models for occupational health management; strengthened the control over hazardous chemicals  and major sources of danger, improved the emergency management system, enhanced the capacity to  address accidents, and identified and removed potential risks to ensure better safety. We also worked  to enhance the quality of the personnel engaged in safety management, improved our fire control and  urged subsidiaries to clearly defined the responsibilities related to safe production so as to raise Bao- steels overall level of safeproduction management.  Improve the Production Safety Sys- tem Joint inspections on the first Thursday  of every month The leaders in charge of safety organize  joint safety inspections with the staff from func- tional departments on the first Thursday every  month, to check the on-site situation of produc- tion safety on every project under construction.  The inspection results are taken as part of the  assessment of the persons-in-charge of safety.  All the inspections are seriously conducted with  PDCA (plan-do-check-act cycle). The inspectors  have talks with on-site managers and workers,  to identify, check, observe, discuss about, record  and take feedback of safety issues. The safety  inspections provide support for the safety man- agement on the basic level and solve problems  on site. They have been well received and wel- comed by the employees. New models of occupational health  management Baosteel conducted supervision on the  standardization of occupational health manage- ment in all subsidiaries, improved the occupa- tional health screening process, and enhanced  the health screening efficiency. The Corporation  promoted occupational hazard management  by regions, and fully implemented it into the  factories directly under Baosteel Group Corpora- tion. Baosteel also made great efforts to foster  a professional test and assessment team for oc- cupational health, and Baosteel Engineering &  Technology Group Co., Ltd. received nationally- recognized certificates in this regard. A 3-year Improvement Plan for Quali- fications of Safety Personnel Baosteel worked out an improvement plan  for the personnel of the safety system to encour- age safety personnel as well as frontline man- agement staff to attend training program and  become certified safety engineers by providing  centralized training sessions and incentives. The  Corporation also tried to enhance the capabil- ity of its safety management personnel through  knowledge sharing, internal communication and  on-post practices. Better-targeted and more effective  safety education and training Baosteel conducted body sense basic  safety training for new employees, and further  safety management workshops for management  staff; organized interactive group training for  team heads, and self-management training for  team members.  1. Baosteel established a Body Sense Safe- Year Frequency of injuries (number of workers injured  per million working hours) Ratio of serious injuries (number of working days  lost per million working hours) 2011 0.15 243.74 2010 0.17 117.93 2009 0.29 106.94 ty Training Center with an investment of over  RMB 3 million where trainees could have a bet- ter understanding of the dangers and disastrous  consequences of accidents by watching, partici- pating in and experiencing simulated accidents  such as mechanical injuries, falls, and electric  shocks. In the center, trainees can get a basic  idea of accidents with personal experience in real  or simulated environments and communication  with other team members. Then they learn cor- rect operations and acquired safety knowledge  from the trainers through explanations and  model practices. Providing 5 training rooms and  nearly 30 training programs, the center can ac- commodate 50 trainees a day and 250 persons a  week. By the end of 2011, more than 9,000 em- ployees have received training in the center. 2. Baosteel launched an online multimedia  accident database to build a firewall against ac- cidents in mind and spread a safety net for life.  With this database, employees can watch replay  of accidents, read through analysis and learn  countermeasures. Accident cases were presented  with animations and generated better effects  by getting people interested with its originality.  Since its launch in November 2011, over 4,200  employees have visited the database. Vigorous efforts for the standard- ization of production safety Baosteel was selected as one of the 22  model enterprises of production safety stan- dardization by the State Administration of Work  Safety. Its subsidiaries made self-inspection and  corrections against the Specification for Produc- tion Safety Standardization and the respective  standards for iron smelting, coking, sintering,  steel smelting, steel rolling, and gas, to further  test the effectiveness of their occupational  health management systems and raise their level  of safety management. Baosteel Co., Ltd. as a  whole qualified for the certificate of first-class  enterprises in production safety standardization.  Ningbo Steel had some units passing the review  for second-class production safety standardiza- tion. Baosteel Accident Database observes the principles of easy access, well-defined structure, and well- presented web pages, and its contents are mainly documents in doc and ppt formats, and multimedia  courseware. It serves as an online library for safety education and training.  Baosteel  Accident  Database Categories by processes case categories Iron making Coking Sintering Blast furnace Steel making Steel rolling Electric Are furnace(EAF) Converter Continuous casting Electric shock Mechanism Cranes Drowning High-voltage cabinet Welding machine Temporary power Baosteel CSR Report / 59 58 Employee Performance  Communication with Employees Baosteel Employee BBS The Baosteel employee BBS Bridge has been going on quite well since its official launch at the  end of 2010. The BBS has seen a stable increase of users with the number approaching 40,000 by the  end of 2011 and a monthly login count of over 360,000. New columns were added to the BBS in 2011,  including Life Tips, Mental Refreshment, Communication, Green Apple World, and Window for Returned  Students. Activities such as the third season of Best Practice: My Show and Online Voting for the  Young Ambassador of Baosteel were carried out through the BBS and warmly received by employees.  The Corporation worked out and distributed Opinions on the Development of Bridge BBS and Regula- tions for the Management of the Baosteel Employee Bridge BBS to further promote the development  of the BBS and implementation of the reply-within-7-days system. The BBS also attracted attention  from competent authorities and peer companies. The working team from the Publicity Administration  under the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council heard  report on Bridge BBS during its visit to Baosteel, and peer companies such as ICBC and Air China also  exchanged ideas on corporate website construction with the Youth League Committee of Baosteel. Operating Data of the "Bridge" Warmth of Family Letters carried on Baosteels Warmth of Family Letters program was launched in 2009 and in the program, grass- roots organizations of the Communist Youth League sent letters to the families of League members. Al- together 7,082 letters were sent in 2011, and 531 replies received. In early 2011, the Baosteel Communist  Youth League Committee selected 15 best letters and 7 best replies, and compiled the Collection of Best  Family Letters of Baosteel 2010-2011, which was distributed to 969 grassroots Communist Youth League  branches within Baosteel. These family letters brought warmth to the young employees of Baosteel. Addressing Top Concerns of Employees Baosteel gets to know about employees thoughts by regularly collecting their requests and  complaints, keeping an eye on the "Bridge", and conducting survey for Questions to Baosteel Leaders.  Baosteel subsidiaries worked out implementation measures and rules based on their own situations, to  effectively collect employees requests and complaints. In 2011, the Corporation included the following programs into its 4D Project < Note 1 >: establish- ing a housing subsidy plan for young employees, establishing standard humanistic programs for small  subsidiaries outside Shanghai, and establishing an employee mutual-help mechanism. The 4D project  team was organized with the President of the Corporation in charge, and the Chairman of the Workers  Union as the executive officer to conduct detailed surveys and studies concerning these programs. Fea- sibility Report on the Construction of Transitional Low-rent Housing for Young Employees was reviewed  and approved in principle at the presidents working conference with the pilot project to be launched in  Baosteel Co., Ltd. Guidance on Establishing Standard Humanistic Programs in Small Subsidiaries outside  Shanghai and Guidance on Establishing an Employee Mutual-help Mechanism were issued, and the re- spective programs carried out. A total of 128 top concerns < Note 2 > were identified and submitted by Baosteel subsidiaries in  2011, according to Questions to Baosteel Leaders 2010 and the employees requests and complaints col- lected in daily work. By the end of December 2011, 123 of these concerns or 96.1% of the total had been  solved. Collective Consultation and Collective Contracts In 2011, Baosteel signed collective contracts with employees through equal consultation. The col- lective contracts covered all employees, and the contractual terms were all honored. The Corporation and its subsidiaries revised a total of 128 items in their collective agreements  through full consultation between the authority and the employees in 2011 and revisions mainly in- volved labor safety and health, supplementary housing reserve fund, honor incentive mechanism, grass- roots team building, health plan and health checks, as well as difficulty assistance. The new collective  contract was more relevant to employees, and played a significant role in building up a harmonious  labor relation and protecting the employees rights and interests. Safeguarding the National Unity Out of the 26,131 employees of Xinjiang Bayi Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. of Baosteel, 5,376 are from  minority groups, accounting for 20.57%. The minority employees constitute an integral part of the com- pany, and put the company in a good position for promoting national unity. Keeping in line with the policies of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, Xinjiang Bayi Iron &  Steel Co., Ltd. set May as the Month of Strengthening the National Unity and has held relevant activities  every year since 1983. In the activities, employees from all ethnic groups get to know each other better  make progresses shoulder by shoulder. In May 2011, 29 forums were held on topics such as The Company and Development, National  Unity and Development, Bayi Company and Development and etc. Renowned professors from the  Party School of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region were invited to give a lecture on CPCs Policies for  Ethnic Affairs and the Prosperity of Minority Groups in Xinjiang. Employees were organized to visit the  Company History Museum, and employees from minority groups wrote working diaries. Various other  cultural and sports activities were also held to promote the solidarity and mutual understanding and  respect between employees of various ethnic groups. ZibaidulaAwuti and Li Guo from Bayi Iron & Steel  Co., Ltd. were honored as Models for National Unity and Progress on the 9th Honoring Ceremony for  the National Unity and Progress of Urumqi. Year 2009 2010 2011 Registered Users 22,350 31,641 39,751 Suggestions and Complaints 1,444 1,629 1,099 Reply Rate 100% 100% 100% Note 1: 4D The term 4D is derived from the initials of four  major links of operation and management, i.e.  Discussion, Deliberation, Decision and Doing,  which corresponds to virtual meeting, proposal  preview, proposal list, and work priority in the  collaborative office system of Baosteel. 4D rep- resents an innovative attempt for project-based  management. Note 2: Top concerns Baosteel launched the annual survey of Questions  to Baosteel Leaders in 2005, to collect and solve  the problems most concerned by employees, as  well as the ones that are most closely-related to  their work and life. Speech and Story Contest on National  Unity in Bayi Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. Lecture of the Education Month of Strengthening  National Unity of Bayi Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. Sunshine Studio in Baosteel Develop- ment Co., Ltd. The Sunshine Studio was established in Baosteel De- velopment Co., Ltd. on June 24, 2011 and officially opened  on July 18 as part of the efforts of the CPC Committee of  Baosteel Development to better serve the employees. Con- sisting of an interview room, a relief room and a counseling  hotline, the studio aims to help employees relieve pressure.  There are Meeting Room and Pressure-relieving Room in  the Sunshine Studio, and 25 experienced Party secretaries  from grassroots CPC branch committees and employees  with psychological knowledge form a psychiatric coaching  team, and have face-to-face talks with employees who need  their help. Or, employees may call the hotline to seek help.  The coaching team members provide counseling service to  employees every day in the interview room. Or, employees  may relieve their pressure with the help of the relieving de- vices in the relief room. Employees can find mental support  and aid in the Sunshine Studio, so that they will work and  live happily with vitality. case  Vietnam Baosteel Canmaking Co., Ltd. Vietnam Baosteel Can Making Co., Ltd. was registered  in Tinh Bnh Duong, Vietnam on 18 August 2011. By 7 Feb- ruary 2012, the company had 17 employees; 8 of them were  management and technical staffs dispatched from China,  while the other 9, or over 50% of the total, were recruited  locally in Vietnam. The nine Vietnamese employees received  training in China for three to five months. Baosteel provided the Vietnamese trainees with accom- modation, transportation, meals, winter clothes and Internet  access during their stay in Shanghai so that they could  have good training here. During the Spring Festival holiday,  Baosteel organized the Vietnamese employees to visit land- marks of Shanghai, including the Oriental Pearl Tower and  Nanjing Road. They were also invited to spend the holidays  in the homes of Chinese employees. The Vietnamese employees have not only acquired  skills, but also participated in cultural activities in Baosteel.  They performed a traditional Vietnamese dance with bam- boo hats together with Chinese colleagues at the annual  meeting of Baosteel Metal and established friendship with  Chinese employees. case Quality Local Talents of Baosteel Europe  GmbH Founded in 1993, Baosteel Europe GmbH (hereinafter  referred to as Baosteel Europe) is a wholly-owned subsidiary  of Baosteel that operates on behalf of Baosteel Group Cor- poration in Europe, Africa and the Middle East. By the end of  2011, it had altogether 72 Chinese and foreign employees.  Seven out of the eight employees of Baosteel Italy are lo- cal people, including the General Manager. Among the 5  employees of Baosteel Spain, 3 are Spanish. And only one  employee in Baosteel Eastern Europe Office is Chinese, while  the other three are local people. These foreign employees  not only work for the Baosteel, but also form part of our  corporate culture and part of Baosteel overseas family. case Baosteel CSR Report / 61 60 Employee Performance  Education / 480,000 Difficulty assistance / 55,104,752 Disaster relief / 52,000 Culture & art / 800,000 Environmental protection / 1,000,000 Others / 3,440,000 In RMB General Information about Donations In 2011, Baosteel managed its donations in strict compliance with the Regulations on the Manage- ment of Baosteel Donations and Sponsorships (Second Version). The donations totaled RMB 60,877,000.  Furthermore, the Baosteel Education Fund, which has a history of 22 years, gave out RMB9.43 million in  cash to award 1,212 teachers and students from 107 universities and colleges and 18 research institutes  under the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS). 8,847 4,254.3 6,087.7 2009 2010 2011 Total donations (RMB 10,000) / 63 62 Social Performance SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Baosteel has been making firm contributions to the Chinese scientific  investigations in the Antarctic since 1993. More than 2,300 square meters  of the Chinese research stations in the Antarctic, or over 80% of the total  area, were built by Baosteel Youth Shock Brigade with Baosteel products.  Note 1: The Taklimakan Rally is held in the Taklimakan and Lop Nor in Xinjiang in early  May. The Rally raises funds for school dropouts and aids the poor. With a strong sense  of social responsibility, the Taklimakan Rally is dedicated to humanistic activities, social  welfare and environmental protection. Meishan Baosteel invested RMB700,000 in the renovation of  Junction  203 on the Meishan Road, and RMB2 million in the renovation proj- ect for the Kuangmeiling and Meiyuan residential areas, so that the  residents can enjoy better living conditions, as well as RMB90,000 to  equip the community recreation rooms with air-conditioners in the  mining area. Baosteel also provided the residents with 1,100 jobs. Ningbo Ningbo Steel organizes the League members and volunteers  to provide voluntary services for the elderly with no family in neigh- boring communities and senior citizens homes. They put on perfor- mances for over 500 residents and 85 aged people with no family in  neighboring communities in 2011. China Green Carbon Foundation (CGCF) is the first nation- wide non-profit public foundation dedicated to combating climate  change by increasing carbon sinks in China. All funds raised by CGCF  are used for forestation to increase carbon sinks and improve for- est management. Ningbo Steel donated RMB1 million in 2011 to the  Beilun Project of CGCF for forestation and the fight against climate  change. Australia (Figure 4) Baosteel and Hamersley Iron co-established a community  foundation in 2004 to repay the Paraburdoo area. The foundation  aims to help the youth (Aboriginal youth included) in remote areas  in Paraburdoo with cultural and art events, as well as other opportu- nities of development, including painting, music, drama and dance.  The playground in the Alliance Park completed in 2010 is most popu- lar with the residents. Shanghai Age-friendly Housing Project. As the aged population gets  larger in Shanghai, more importance has been attaches to home  care for senior citizens. The Age-friendly Housing Project aims to  make the existing housing safer and more convenient and comfort- able for senior citizens by upgrading the facilities, adding new func- tions, optimizing the layout and improving the environment. Senior  citizens with difficulties in nearly one hundred households in the  Baoshan Community will have better housing conditions when the  project is finished. Aid to Baoshan Youyi Cancer Rehabilitation Club Baosteel has been providing aid to Baoshan Youyi Cancer Re- habilitation Club since 1996, helping the club members regain con- fidence and fight cancer. The club organizes various rehabilitation  activities, including experience sharing of patients with the same  disease, talk treatment, and multiple sports and entertainment  events. The five-year survival rate of club members is as high as  90%, 15% higher than the general rate. Moreover, the club provides  consultation and psychiatric services for non-member cancer pa- tients through its rehabilitation hotline, extending care and love to  the whole society. Support for Shanghai Baoshan International Folk Arts  Festival (Figure 3) As the sponsor of Shanghai Baoshan International Folk Arts  Festival, Baosteel has supported the festival since the opening of  the first festival in October 1995. The festival is themed the festival  for all calling for public participation and enjoyment. Thousands  of folk have come to Baoshan with folk arts of their own countries  and spread them to urban and rural areas, various communities and  islands on the sea. Etienne Vankeirsbilck, Vice President of the Inter- national Organization of Folk Art claimed Baoshan International Folk  Art Festival to be the best folk art festival in the world. Support for Shanghai Charity Partnership Day The first Shanghai Charity Partnership Day was launched in  November 2011. It aims to establish new partnership between gov- ernment, social organizations and companies, so that more compa- nies can participate in social welfare activities and fulfill their social  responsibility; Social organizations may strengthen their capacity  building and further their development through the project; and  more people may participate in charity activities in Shanghai. Nearly  one hundred charity activists attended the Partnership between  Companies and Charity Organizations forum, to share their views  on how to enhance the partnership between companies and charity  organizations for better achievements. Guangdong Baosteel have played an active role in the Aid-the-poor Day  activities in Guangdong for two years, and the donations totaled  RMB3.7 million for projects in Zhujing Village of Longwo Township,  Zijin County, Heyuan City, Sanshui Village of Shangsha Township,  Xijie County, Jieyang City, Hexi Village of Meikeng Township, Xinfeng  County, Shaoguan City, and Gaoming Village of Chengyue town- ship, Suixi County, Zhanjiang City, and purchased the new rural old- age insurance for the poor in over 3,000 poverty-stricken villages  in Guangdong. Baosteel also gave financial aid to the relocation  of villages with production and living conditions inappropriate for  people. Baosteel won the Copper Kapok Cup for Aid-the-poor Work  of Guangdong Province. Shanghai EXPO Seeds of Love Project (Figure 1) Baosteel organized a charity project that lasted throughout  2011, the EXPO Seeds of Love series. It aimed to raise funds for  vulnerable groups through charity sale of the EXPO seeds from  the UK Pavilion or Seed Cathedral of EXPO Shanghai 2010. It was  launched in three sessions. The first session, Waking up the Seeds,  was carried out within Baosteel and the funds raised were donated  to Shanghai Qingcongquan Training Center for Children with Spe- cial Needs. This was Baosteel employees love for the society. In the  second session, Seeds for Life, our employees made donations to  an employee of Baosteel Iron & Steel Co., Ltd whose child was down  with leukemia. The third session, Seeds of Hope was open to the  whole society. Baosteel Love for Communities Program was officially  launched at the release for Baosteel CSR Report 2010. Under this  program, children with autism from Baoshan Community may have  a one-year treatment in Qingcongquan Training Center at the ex- penses of Baosteel. By now, three children have received treatment  under this program. Meanwhile, Sunflower Volunteers from Baosteel  Headquarters and volunteers from Baosight Software Co., Ltd. also  provided voluntary services to communities. New Countryside Project Since 2007, Baosteel Iron & Steel, Baosteel Development, and  Baosteel Metal have provided aid and assistance for four economi- cally-backward villages in Chongmingmiao Township, 3 economical- ly-weak villages in Baoshan District, and Jiulong Village of Shanyang  Township, Jinshan District, respectively. With full communication  and good investigations, the companies worked out specific plans  covering difficulty assistance, educational allowances, infrastructure  construction, project investment, and businesses cooperation. The  aid and assistance have truly promoted the development of local  economy and improved the living standard of the local people with  a total donation of over RMB 9 million by the end of 2011. Share the Sunshine: Education and Employment Aid to  Migrant Workers Children Jointly organized by Shanghai Charity Foundation and seven  other units in Shanghai, this initiative aims to provide financial  aid for migrant workers children so that they can finish second- ary technical school education, as well as jobs and related training  expenses. Baosteel was among the first participants of this project.  Baosteel Industry Technological Service Co., Ltd. has provided over  50 posts of such as benchwork and electrician, and put in more than  RMB100,000 for related training since 2007. All the students in this  project have acquired related basic skills and at least one special skill  through vocational training. After 6 month of probation with instruc- tions, they are basically qualified for the posts and able to make con- tributions to the society. Shanghai Age-friendly Housing Project (Figure 2) Aging is a big social problem in China now and Shanghai is no  exception. Baosteel is well aware of this problem and has taken ac- tive actions. Baosteel has been making donations to Shanghai Senior Citi- zens Foundation since 2008 and donated RMB2 million in 2011 for  Relationship with Communities Xinjiang Bayi Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. of Baosteel Group has supported  every Taklimakan Rally < Note 1 > since 2005, promoting the develop- ment of car and motorcycle sports in Xinjiang and China. The motor- cyclists challenge the harsh nature, the physical limits of man, and  the ceiling of motor performance in the rally, and show their strong  will and courage. (Figure 1)                                                              (Figure 2)                                                                   (Figure 3)                                                           (Figure 4)     Happy Bala Born in 1985, Nueraili Aimuduli is a young employee of Uyghur nationality in Bayi Iron & Steel  Co., Ltd. He is a cheerful young man who joined Baosteel after retiring from the army. Nueraili has  been helping Tian Jiwu of Han nationality and his families in the past eight years, while he himself  has lived in frugality. During the eight years, Nueraili has given more than RMB40,000 to the Tians  with the help of which the son went to college in 2011. Nueraili donated RMB10,000 to the areas hit  by the Wenchuan Earthquake in 2008, and another RMB10,000 to help poor students in his commu- nity. Now, many people join Nueraili in helping those in difficulties, and the relevant authorities are  planning to establish a Bayi-Aili Educational Fund to raise more funds. case Baosteel CSR Report / 65 64 Social Performance  Earthquake Relief in  Yushu, Qinghai The main part of Baosteel  Childrens Welfare Home in the  Chengduo County, Yushu Tibetan  Autonomous Prefecture, Qinghai  Province was completed in 2011,  with the donation totaled RMB 8.5 million from Baosteel employees in 2010  dedicated for the construction of the childrens welfare home. The project  covers an area of 3,332 square meters, including teaching buildings, can- teens, dormitory buildings, courtyard walls, gates, courtyard greening and  other infrastructure. The construction strictly complied with the earthquake- resistance technical specifications. Both the size and facilities of the chil- drens welfare home was greatly improved compared to those before the  earthquake. Baosteel employees made new donations of RMB303,499.16  in 2011 for necessary facilities in the childrens welfare home. Children left  orphaned or disabled after the earthquake in Chengduo County will find a  warm home in the childrens welfare home. Poverty-alleviation Assistance in Specific Areas Baosteel has been providing poverty-alleviation assistance specifi- cally for Ninger, Mojiang, Jiangcheng, and Zhenyuan counties in Puer City,  Yunnan Province since 2004. The Corporation has put in RMB80,387,000  in 234 assistance projects carried out in 171 villages of 29 townships, ben- efiting 130,480 people in 32,878 households. Large numbers of people  have benefited from the integrated village development plans (IVDPs) and  the plans for development of new areas. Infrastructures in these poverty- stricken areas have been significantly improved, and Baosteel has given  direct aid to the rural population in these areas living below the line of  absolute poverty, improving their production and living conditions. We  also helped the people in the four counties develop local industries, so that  the poor population may enjoy sustainable development from the poverty- alleviation projects. Baosteel has focused on the public facilities as well,  and the basic medical and educational conditions in these areas have been  bettered. In 2002, Baosteel became one of the first 17 central enterprises to  pair and provide aid to Tibet. In line with the Central Governments deploy- ment and principle of taking responsibility in a certain area, providing  pair-off aid, and making regular shifts, Baosteel provided aid for Zhongba  County of Shigatse Prefecture (the site of the county government is 4,772  meters above sea level, and the average altitude is over 5,000 meters). In  the past ten years, Baosteel has provided personnel and financial support  and assistance to Zhongba County, dispatched eight cadres in four batches,  and conducted in-depth investigations their. All the funds have been put  into development-oriented projects to promote the development of local  economy and enhance the livelihood of the local people. From 2002 to  2011, Baosteel invested RMB133 million in 88 projects in Tibet, constructing  water and power facilities, roads, and clinics, and providing doctor training  and other vocational training in the area. The Antarctic Baosteel made its debut in  the Antarctic in 1993 when the  first-generation PE color-coated  sheets independently developed  by Baosteel were used to build  the food storage building and  the research buildings of the  Great Wall Station. Eight em- ployees of Baosteel went to the  Antarctic in November 2001 for the construction of the Baosteel Building in  the Great Wall Station and it took them only 72 days to complete the most  beautiful building in the Antarctic, 18 days ahead of the schedule. In Oc- tober 2008, Baosteel announced that it would construct the principal part  of the Kunlun Station, Chinas first scientific investigation station in inland  Antarctic. The station covers an area of 558.56 square meters and is worth  RMB4.5 million. Baosteel Youth Commando completed the construction of  the Kunlun Station on 27 January 2009, three days ahead of the schedule.  In 2010, Baosteel undertook the construction project in the Great Wall Sta- tion, building a new scientific research building and a multifunction build- ing, with a total area of over 1,800 square meters. A construction commando composed of ten employees of Baosteel  started the 135-day journey to the Antarctic with the 28th Antarctic Scientif- ic Expedition in November 2011. They successfully accomplished their work  at the Great Wall Station and the 2nd phase construction of the multifunc- tion building of the Kunlun Station. Baosteel Education Foun- dation Baosteel Scholarship was set  up with RMB2 million in 1990 and  expanded to RMB100 million in 2005.  The scholarship has five awards,  namely Baosteel Outstanding Student  Award, Baosteel Outstanding Student Special Award, Baosteel Outstand- ing Teacher Award, Nomination for Baosteel Outstanding Teacher Special  Award, and Baosteel Outstanding Teacher Special Award. In 2010, Baosteel  set up another scholarship for students from Hong Kong, Macau and Tai- wan that covered 12 universities and colleges, to encourage more students  from Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan to receive their higher education in  mainland China. By 2011, 17,602 teachers and students from over 100 universities and  colleges and 18 research institutes directly under the Chinese Academy of  Sciences (CAS) had received Baosteel Education Awards. Among them, 200  teachers received Baosteel Outstanding Teacher Special Award, 28 teachers  Nomination for Baosteel Outstanding Teacher Special Award, 3,763 teach- ers Baosteel Outstanding Teacher Award, 261 students Baosteel Outstand- ing Student Special Award, 12,961 people Baosteel Outstanding Student  Award, 203 students Baosteel Outstanding Award for Students from Tai- wan, and 185 people Baosteel Outstanding Award for Students from Hong  Kong and Macau. In the past 22 years, Baosteel Education Foundation has  put in almost RMB150 million as awards and educational allowances. Baosteel Education Awards have won good reputation in universi- ties, colleges and the whole society in China, and has been one of the most  popular national awards with the largest sum. In the 22 years, many award  winners have made brilliant contributions on their posts. National Iron & Steel Natural Science Foundation of  China On August 28, 2000, Baosteel and the National Natural Science  Foundation of China (NSFC) signed an agreement to establish the Iron &  Steel Research Foundation in Beijing. The Foundation gives priority to new  metallurgical technology in urgent need in the steel industry of China, and  to the basic research projects of scientific significance and value of appli- cation with respect to technology, materials, energy, environment, equip- ment, and information. The Foundation encourages innovation, interdisci- plinary research and industry-university-institute collaboration, and gives  top priority to young scientific talents. The Iron & Steel Research Foundation provided funds for more than  50 universities, colleges and research institutes in China, including Tsing- hua University and Shanghai Jiao Tong University. More than 300 doctors,  over 500 postgraduates and 25 post-docs from the projects funded by the  Foundation are now working in iron and steel industry and related sectors.  Some project achievements have won the National S&T Progress Awards. The Iron & Steel Research Foundation has focused on the basic  research in iron and steel industry, product development and integrated  product upgrading, as well as the prospective and applied basic research  concerning environmental issues, and laid a solid foundation for and pro- moted the sound sustainable development of the iron and steel industry in  China. The progressive research on silicon steel is approaching the world  level, and does not fully depend upon the imported technology and tech- niques any more. There have been nearly 30 projects on the scientific stud- ies of inclusions and crack control. In the late 20th century in China, only  Baosteel was capable of mass production of X70 pipeline steel that poses  strict requirements for steel smelting and hot-rolling techniques. With the  help of the research projects, nowadays, more than 10 companies in China  can manufacture X80 pipeline steel that is even better than X70 products.  Baosteel is one of the few in the world that can produce the best X120  pipeline steel. The Foundation has also funded basic and applied research  projects such as recovery and utilization of sensible heat in slag, and re- source utilization in low-grade composite mineral deposits. Some achieve- ments have been widely applied in the iron and steel industry, while others  are also put into application in other sectors or industries. By 2011, the Iron & Steel Research Foundation had contributed a  total of RMB86 million (with Baosteel and the NSFC each providing 50% of  the total) to 215 projects. The Foundation has set up an important platform  for basic research in the iron and steel industry in China, and linked the ba- sic and applied research in the industry. Contribution to the Society Words from Prof. Mao Zhenming of Beijing  Normal University Baosteel Education Awards play a significant role in pro- moting the educational development in China. It calls on the  whole society to pay attention to education and show respects  for teachers. We simply need more awards of this kind. Timely Assistance to a Uyghur Girl By Mireguli Ainiwaer, student from  College of Resources and Environmental  Science, Xinjiang University and winner of  Baosteel Outstanding Student Award 2010 I am Mireguli Ainiwaer. I was born  in the Kuqa County of Aksu Prefecture,  Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region. My  father is laid off, and my mother is a work- er in the Kuqa Highway Bureau. I have a  brother one year younger than I. My dad  and mom have been living a frugal life to  bring my brother and me and send us to  school. I was enrolled in Xinjiang University in 2006 and my brother in Shenyang Jianzhu Univer- sity one year later. I felt truly helpless in the summer vacation of 2010 when I was pondering myself with the  question of how I can help my dad and mom with the heavy burdens on their shoulders. Ive been studying hard since the first day of my college life. I won scholarships every year,  and found part-time jobs in my spare time to earn my living and lessen the family burdens. However, a blow may come at any time. In August 2010 when I was to begin my fourth year  in college, my dad got acute pleurisy and had an operation, and was unfortunately diagnosed  with diabetes later. My family could no longer make ends meet with my mom's salary of less than  RMB2,000 a month and my brother and I had to face the economic constraints in our life and  study. The biggest problem was our tuition fees for the new academic year. Mom and dad made  a harsh decision that my brother should suspend his study for one year and resume it when I  graduate. How I wish I could graduate one year earlier and spare my brother from a suspension! In  desperation, I got the news that Id won Baosteel Outstanding Student Award as one of the two  winners from minority groups in my university. The RMB5,000 of the scholarship solved my prob- lem at once, and it was like the charcoal in snow for our family. For me, Baosteel Scholarship is not only a financial aid, but also a power to push me forward.  Ive made my mind to do better in future. I am now a postgraduate in Xinjiang University. case case Baosteel CSR Report / 67 66 Social Performance  Seek Mutual Prosperity in Good Faith Baosteel Raw Material Procurement Center, upholding the value concept of faith and honesty,  has established a scientific evaluation system, continuously strengthened the partnership with suppliers  by means of standardizing the admission criteria. The Company strives to achieve mutual benefits and a  win-win situation with suppliers, and takes the capacities for delivery, cost, manufacturing, quality con- trol, service and collaboration as the main indicators in supplier evaluation. In 2011, in face of complex  and volatile situations and the tight supply of some raw materials and under the impact of seasonal fac- tors like floods and typhoons, Baosteel, in line with the working principles of strengthening synergy and  ensuring supply to meet production needs; optimizing structure and market-based operations to reduce  procurement costs; reinforcing foundation, improving capability and promoting refined management,  took initiative to adapt to changes of internal and external environments, focused on capacity building  of the raw material procurement system and promoting digital procurement, strengthened cooperation  with strategic suppliers, explored new varieties and supply channels, enhanced collaboration and com- munication with relevant parties and comprehensively balanced capacities of the wharf, the stockyard  and shipping vessels, enabling the bulk raw material procurement to ensure supply, reduce costs and  improve services.  Green Procurement Baosteel released the Green Procurement Guideline (Version 1.0) on March 26, which introduces  the companys green procurement policies, such as preference for energy-saving, recyclable and long- lasting products, and encouragement for the use of clean energy, materials, processes and technology,  etc. The implementation of these policies will not only introduce more green standards, certifications  and manufacturing measures into the production process of Baosteel, but also drive suppliers to im- prove their own management and fulfil their social responsibility of energy conservation and environ- mental protection.  Develop Together With suppliers / 69 68 Supply Chain Performance SUPPLY CHAIN PERFORMANCE Baosteel takes suppliers and users as a priority for fulfilling its social responsibility. It is committed  to becoming a value contributor on the entire value chain by being responsible to customers, support- ing the development of suppliers and sharing achievements with all partners. Baosteel provides customized personal services for users  throughout the world with its widespread sales network which  consists of outlets in all provinces, autonomous regions and  municipalities of China and 22 foreign countries and regions,  as well as its 49 steel service centers home and abroad.   Baosteel Raw Material Procurement Center continued to encourage suppliers to implement the  environmental management system (ISO14001) and gave preferences to suppliers with such certificates.  In 2011, 10% of Baosteels suppliers got the ISO14001 certificate. In Baosteels ship carrier selection, ISM/ NSM certificates were required for the carriers or their management vendors. In 2011, all major carriers  of Baosteel are with ISM/NSM certificates. Qualified Suppliers of Baosteel Material & Spare Parts Procurement Department with Certificates of the Environmental  Management System Green Procurement of Materials & Spare Parts by Baosteel Headquarters: Year 2009 2010  2011 Total number of qualified suppliers 1,048  995 996 Suppliers with ISO14001  certificate Number 87 176 301 Percentage 8% 18% 30% Green Product Procurement Green attribute identification has been done for over 100,000 varieties of materials and spare  parts, accounting for 30% of all varieties procured by the Baosteel Headquarters. Statistics of the pro- curement of green products (identified) in the past three years are as follows: Communication with Suppliers According to the Provisions on Classification Standards of SMEs (associated enterprises of the  Ministry of Industry [2011] No. 300), SME suppliers are defined as enterprises with registered capital of  no more than RMB10 million (foreign currency will be converted into equivalent RMB). The performance  data on materials & spare parts that Baosteel Headquarters has procured from SMEs in the past three  years (excluding import procurement) is shown below. Communication with Suppliers *  In April 2011, the Nineteenth General Council of Baosteel Joint Development and Supply Center for  Equipment and Spare Parts was held in the presence of 180 representatives from 85 governing units such as  China First Heavy Industries Co. Ltd., China Second Heavy Industries Co. Ltd., Taiyuan Heavy Industries Co. Ltd.  and Dalian Heavy Industries Co., Ltd., and relevant staff of Baosteel. At the meeting, which was themed Work- ing together and turning challenges into opportunities, a consensus was reached on responding to competi- tion by making changes. The suppliers and purchasers will continue to intensify efforts in innovation and inte- gration of technologies and products with independent intellectual property rights to build a stable and long- lasting supply chain based on mutual trust. *  In November 2011, the promotion meeting for the production, supply and development of steel-mak- ing refractory was held. 19 projects were identified for collaboration of manufacturers, suppliers and research  institutes, such as converter and ladle for life extension and consumption reduction, and RH non-chrome tech- Local suppliers refer to manufacturing enterprises registered in Shanghai (excluding trade companies,  agents and foreign-invested Chinese companies). Statistics of materials & spare parts that Baosteel Headquar- ters procured from local enterprises in the past three years are shown in the following figure. SHANGHAI, March 16 (Xinhua): Chinese Steel Enterprise Launched  Green Procurement Guideline to Pro- mote Green Upgrading of Industrial  Chain  Li Rong, Xinhua News Agency On the 16th, Baosteel, a representative iron and  steel enterprise in China, released its Green Procure- ment Guideline the first of its kind in the industry.  Baosteel gives priority to recyclable products  that help save energy, reduce emission, and extend  service life, and encourages suppliers to use clean  energy, raw materials, production processes and  technology. These policies will not only introduce  more green standards, certificates and green manu- facturing measures into the production process of  Baosteel, but also drive suppliers to improve their  own management.  As a leading company in the iron and steel  industry, Baosteel has set an example in the green  transformation for its partners on the industrial  chain, who will soon follow suit to jointly build a  green manufacturing chain, Bo Jun, Chairman of  Sinosteel Refractory Co., Ltd., a long-term supplier of  Baosteel, told the reporter.  Baosteel has worked together with qualified  suppliers to implement the Joint Development  Program to develop new-generation green steel  products at low cost according to the production and  market needs.  nology development, in accordance with  the new needs of production sites for more  refractory varieties, advanced smelting  technologies, consumption reduction and  energy saving. At the meeting, Baosteel  signed cooperative agreements on refrac- tory production, supply and development  with relevant suppliers and proposed the  target of reducing the refractory consump- tion per ton by 2%-5%.  *  In November 2011, the Company  held the Baosteel Roller Management  Seminar, with the theme of tapping into  potentials and jointly adapting to market  changes. Through exchanges and discus- sion, all participating roller users, manage- ment units and roller suppliers reached  a consensus on the integration of roller  application and manufacturing technology,  the improvement of comprehensive evalu- ation mechanism, green manufacturing,  quality improvement, technology cost re- duction, inventory optimization and value- added supply chain.  0.00 2.00 4.00 6.00 8.00 10.00 2009 2010 2011 0.0% 1.0% 2.0% 3.0% 4.0% 2.6% 2.3% 2.4% 2.55 2.67 2.94 0 20 40 60 80 100 2009 2010 2011 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 39% 41% 40% 38 47 52 0 20 40 60 80 100 2009 2010 2011 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 30% 32% 32% 30 37 41 Value, in RMB100 million Value, in RMB100 million Value, in RMB100 million Percentage of  Procurement from SMEs Percentage of Procurement  from Local Enterprises Percentage of Green Products Baosteel CSR Report / 71 70 Supply Chain Performance  Domestic sales network A nationwide marketing network has  taken shape for the sales, processing and de- livery of carbon steel, stainless steel and special  steel. Baosteel has a sales and service network  with the largest steel sales volume in China, a full  array of products and a large number of outlets  distributed in various areas. Meanwhile, as the  organizer of services for the steel supply chain, it  has built a steel processing and distribution ser- vice system that has the largest domestic steel  processing volume, advanced processing tech- niques and widespread processing sites across  the country.  By the end of 2011, the domestic sales  network of Baosteel comprised 7 regional com- panies, 5 franchisees, 5 business service compa- nies, 3 trading companies, 48 steel service cen- ters, as well as 11 branches and 27 representative  offices under the above-mentioned units; and  Baosteel had a cumulative processing capacity of  7.34 million tons, producing 2,407 million laser  welded pieces and 9.25 million wheels, and mak- ing 900,000 strokes for hot pressing and 660,000  strokes for hydraulic pressing.  In 2011, taking the auto parts business  as an opportunity, Baosteel focused on imple- menting its plan for marketing services network  expansion, vigorously boosted its hard power,  strove to build a competitive steel sales service  system and constantly improved the distribution  of its processing and distribution sites. During  this year, Baosteels annual design capacity for  processing and distribution increased by 1.03  million tons, laser welding capacity by 4.1 million  pieces and wheel production capacity by 3.5 mil- lion. We provide quality services for clients Worldwide service network Baosteel Western Trading Co., Ltd; Chongqing Branch Kunming Representative Office Xinjiang Representative Office Lanzhou Representative Office Chengdu Baosteel Western Trading Co., Ltd. Xian Baosteel Steel Processing & Distribution Co., Ltd. Chongqing Bao-Mit Steel Distribution Co., Ltd.  Chongqing Baosteel Auto Steel Parts Co., Ltd. Chongqing Baosteel Wheels Co., Ltd.  Wuhan Baosteel Central  China Trading Co., Ltd. Zhengzhou Baosteel Steel Process- ing & Distribution Co., Ltd. Nanchang Baojiang Steel Processing  & Distribution Co., Ltd. Changsha Baosteel Steel Products  Trading Co., Ltd. Hunan Baosteel Wheels Co., Ltd.  Guangzhou Baosteel Southern Trading Co., Ltd.  Guangxi Representative Office Guangzhou Guomo Jieyang Baosteel Stainless Steel Trading Co., Ltd. Xiamen Baosteel Precision Metal Products Co., Ltd  Liuzhou Baosteel Auto Steel Parts Co., Ltd. Guangzhou Huadu Bao-Mit Auto Steel Parts Co., Ltd. Dongguan Baosteel Metal Products Co., Ltd. Changan Representative Office Foshan Baosteel Stainless Steel Co., Ltd. Shenzhen Representative Office Jiangmen Representative Office Fuzhou Bao-Mit Steel Co., Ltd.  Guangzhou Baosteel Fengjing Auto Steel Processing Co., Ltd.  Guangzhou Baosteel Jinagchang Steel Distribution Co., Ltd.  Guangzhou Bao-Mit Steel Processing Co., Ltd.  Haikou Baosteel Materials Co., Ltd. South China West China Central China Shanghai Baosteel  Steel Products Trading  Co., Ltd. Wuxi Branch Nanjing Branch  Zhenan Branch  Xuzhou Branch  Shanghai Bao-Mit Steel Distri- bution Co., Ltd.  Baosteel High-strength Steel  Hangzhou Bao-Mit Steel  Processing & Distribution Co.,  Ltd.  Nanjing Baosteel & Sumi- tomo Steel Products Co., Ltd.  (Nanjing Baozhu) Anhui Baosteel Steel Distribu- tion Co., Ltd. Wuxi Bao-Mit Steel Distribu- tion Co., Ltd.  Shanghai Baosteel-Arcelor  Laser Tailor Welded Blanks  Co., Ltd.  Ningbo Baosteel Stainless  Steel Co., Ltd. Ningbo Representative Office Hangzhou Representative Office Wenzhou Representative Office Ningbo Bao-Mit Steel Pro- cessing & Distribution Co.,  Ltd. Shanghai Baosteel Hot  Stamping Parts Co., Ltd. Shanghai Baosteel Hydro- forming Parts Co., Ltd Nanjing Automobile Tooling  Co. Ltd. Shanghai Baosteel  Stainless Steel Trading  Co., Ltd.  Wuxi Branch Wenzhou Branch  Nanjing Representative Office Putuo Representative Office Ningbo Representative Office Shanghai Baosteel  Pudong International  Trading Co., Ltd. Changzhou Representative  Office Taizhou Branch  Baosteel Baoshan Steel  Trading Co., Ltd.  Wuxi Branch Ningbo Branch Jiangwan Representative Office East China West China South China Central China East China North China Shenyang Region Changchun Region New Outlets North China Baosteel Northern Trading Co., Ltd.; Bei- jing Baosteel Industrial & Trading Co., Ltd. Beijing Representative Office  Tianjin Bao-Mit Steel Distribution Co., Ltd.  Yantai Bao-Mit Steel Distribution Co., Ltd.  Jinan Baosteel Steel Processing & Distribution Co., Ltd. Tianjin Baosteel Chuling Material Distribution Co., Ltd.  Qingdao Bao-Mit Steel Distribution Co., Ltd.  Yaitai Baosteel Wheels Co., Ltd.  Changchun Baosteel Steel Products Trading  Co., Ltd. Dongtai Representative Office Harbin Representative Office Changchun Faw Baoyou Steel Processing Delivery Co., Ltd.  Jilin Faw-Baosteel Auto Steel Parts Co., Ltd. Changchun Region Shenyang Region Shenyang Baosteel Steel Products Trad- ing Co., Ltd. Tiexi Representative Office Dalian Representative Office Dalian Baosteel & Sumitomo Metal Products Co. Ltd.  Baosteel Ship Plate Processing  & Distribution Co., Ltd. CSSC Guangzhou Longxue  Shipbuilding Co., Ltd, Baosteel Economic &  Trading Co., Ltd. Wuxi Branch Xinjiang Representative Office Xian Representative Office Songyuan Representative Office Puyang Representative Office Dagang Representative Office Ningbo Representative Office Hangzhou Representative Office Shanghai Baosteel Steel Pipe  Plant  Shanghai Baosteel  Wheels Co. Ltd. Bsteel Co., Ltd. Baosteel International  Freight Forwarding  Corp. Shanghai Baosteel  Packaging Co., Ltd. Baosteel Transport Co.,  Ltd. Baotong Iron & Steel  Co., Ltd.  / 73 72 Supply Chain Performance  Baosteel America Inc. Los Angeles Office  Houston Office  Detroit Office  Baohuarui Mining Ltd. Baosteel Brazil Trading Co., Ltd. Baosight Japan Co., Ltd. Seoul Office Baosteel Resources International Co., Ltd (Hong Kong) Baosteel Metal Co., Ltd. (Baojin) Baosteel Transportation Co., Ltd. (Baoyun) Howa Trading Co., Ltd. Hong Kong Haibao Shipping Co., Ltd. Hong Kong Baosight Co., Ltd. Baosteel Australia Mining Pty Ltd.  Baosteel Australia Pty Ltd. Baosteel Glacier Valley Pty Ltd.  Baosteel Resources (Indonesia) Co.  Russia Representative Office  Baosteel Kazakhstan Trading Co., Ltd. Tianshan Grant Pipe Co., Ltd. Uzbekistan Representative Office Baosteel Europe GMBH Baosteel Italia Distribution  Center SPA Baosteel Espana, S.L. East Europe Representative Office  Baotong Middle East FZE Mumbai Representative Office  India Representative Office  Burwill Holdings Limited Baosteel Resources South Africa Pty Ltd.  (Johannesburg) Thailand Representative Office  Vietnam Representative Office  Baosteel Singapore PTE LTD Overseas companies (including all subsidiary sole proprietorships and  joint ventures)  Overseas offices Overseas network The overseas sales and service network of Baosteel is distributed throughout the  world. First-tier representative offices are set for four major regions, i.e. the Europe, Africa  and Middle East region, the Southeast Asia and South Asia region, the Northeast Asia and  Australia region, and the Americas region. Its overseas marketing network comprises 4 re- gional headquarters and 13 subsidiaries and representative offices, which are responsible  for the overall overseas trading services of Baosteel. In 2011, NSM, the first overseas steel  processing center of Baosteel was established in Italy, marking Baosteels first step toward  overseas steel processing and distribution services. In addition, Baosteel Resources and  Baosight Software have also built their own overseas sales networks. / 75 74 Supply Chain Performance  From 100 Tons to an Exclusive Supplier  In March 2011, the massive earthquake in Japan brought the production of crude  naphthalene to a halt. Kao of Thailand, who had been depending solely on the naphthalene  supply from Japan, was suddenly faced with an emergency. Through various contacts, Kao  in Shanghai, on behalf of Kao in Thailand, placed an urgent order for 100 tons of naphtha- lene with Baosteel Chemical.  Although sympathetic with Thailand Kaos situation, Baosteel Chemical found itself  under enormous pressure in the face of such an urgent order, for it had never exported  any naphthalene at that time. To address such an emergency, Tang Zheng, the sales person  made timely adjustment to the naphthalene sales plan of that month and in the meantime  proactively cooperated with Shanghai Kao for the customs clearance of the export. To ex- port liquid naphthalene, the container filling must be completed on the production site, but  the Baoshan Branch of Baosteel Chemical had never conducted such an operation before.  Through in-depth study on relevant regulations, constant improvement of on-site filling  facilities and repeated confirmation of the height, width and cleanness of the containers to  ensure loading safety and product quality, Baosteel Chemical finally managed to deliver the  100 tons of naphthalene to Thailand Kao in time, and ensured its normal production.  Impressed by Baosteel Chemicals helpfulness, excellent marketing services and strict  quality control, Shanghai Kao made Baosteel Chemical its exclusive supplier of raw naph- thalene around the world in 2011.  Operation model of Production, Sales and Research Baosteel promotes the integrated development of production, sales  and research with an aim to achieve better product development and  more timely response to the users demands. Through collaboration of the  production, R&D, technology and financial departments, we address prob- lems related to product R&D, quality improvement, market expansion, and  customer services to ultimately enhance the competitiveness of Baosteel  products.  In 2011, Baosteel continued to implement SBU promotion based on  integrated management of production, sales and research. The eight pro- motion groups set their goals for the promotion of production, sales and  research according to the needs of product development, and put them  into practice in an orderly manner with quarterly action plans. Listen to the Users Customer Satisfaction Survey Baosteel has always attached great importance to customers opin- ions which are consider a key point in constantly improving our products  and services, and regarded customer satisfaction as the starting point and  the ultimate goal of all our work. Baosteel has persisted in customer satis- faction and perception surveys to get an in-depth understanding of cus- tomers opinions and identify the scope for improvement of our products  and services. To make best use of customer feedback, Baosteel has incor- porated timely response rate and satisfaction rate into the KPI indicators  for the purpose of follow-up management, so as to ensure proper handling  of customers complaints. In 2011, 86.4% customer complaints were dealt  with in a timely manner, with a satisfaction rate of 85.3%.  Year Q1 Q2 Q3  Q4 2009  92.4  92.3  92.4 92.8 2010  90.1  90.7 89.0 90.6 2011  90.5  90.1  89.9 90.8 Note: In 2010, the satisfaction survey was extended to domestic customers of carbon steel, stainless  steel and special steel. E-Commerce E-commerce of Baosteel aims at providing users with convenient  and efficient and value-added services and pleasant experiences. In 2011,  Baosteel integrated its trade and processing e-commerce applications and  adopted unified looks for the interfaces of Baosteel marketing e-commerce  platform to provide users with consistent e-business experience. Targeted  at domestic strategic users, Baosteel continued to optimize its service solu- tions for automobile, home appliances, shipbuilding and energy industries  and corporations, and the key customer channel for domestic strategic us- ers has covered 50% of domestic strategic users, with increasing share of  online sales. The information subscription and delivery services launched in  2011 enabled all users home and abroad to have easy access to contracts,  logistics and inventory information. The applications of electronic docu- ments continued to expand. After introducing electronic contracts, elec- tronic bills of lading and electronic warranties, Baosteel cooperated with  the Classification Society to realize online warranty signing for ship plate  products to reduce the issuance and delivery cycle. In addition, a series of  innovations like social resources agency were also achieved in spot sales. Account Representative System In 2004, Baosteel launched the technical service account repre- sentative system to complement its marketing platform, make full use of  geographic advantages, promptly satisfy customers demand and provide  considerate technical service to strategic customers. This move also pro- vided the latest customer information for the production departments, so  as to improve service quality, manage account representatives in a unified  manner and ensure the independence of their work. In 2009, Baosteel placed great emphasis on account representa- tives capabilities to deal with day-to-day objections of customers, guide  their selection of products and transfer of user needs, carry out in-depth  and demand-oriented technical services and provide users with integrated  technology solutions.  In response to the characteristics such as large scale, multiple bases and diversi- fied demands of downstream customers, especially the automobile customers, Baosteel  established a large customer service team and appointed Director of Large Customers  to develop solution packages for these customers and their subordinate auto companies  and provide them with overall marketing and other services. In 2011, Baosteel market- ing system combined the customer-centered decision-making process with the existing  product-centred decision-making process, completed the preliminary design of the large  customer system, and initially determined the organizational structure, the job setting,  job responsibilities and powers, incentives, evaluation, and customer service process of  the director of large customers and his team, as well as the integration of account man- ager mode into the large customer team system. It initially sorted out the relationship of  responsibilities, powers and interests between existing units of the sales system and the  account director team and provided an innovative organizational model and processes  to further improve customer services. Service Hotline To provide better service and boost more efficient interactions with customers,  Baosteel set up a call center, which, adhering to the service concept of no call missed  and no limit to services, provides customers with 7x24 one-stop services such as busi- ness consultation and complaint resolution. Since its launch in 2011, the call center sys- tem has received a total of 15,073 complaints and consultations from customers. User Visit  Visiting users is an important way to get in-depth un- derstanding of customer needs, and also the starting point  of good services and maintain stable cooperative relations.  From 2011, Baosteel Co., Ltd. conducted systematic planning  and management on users above the direct supply level, and  developed the 2011 annual plan for user visits which covered  all such users and the related implementation departments  including the sales system, business divisions and regional/ exclusive sales agencies throughout the world. Baosteel,  taking the plan as the basis for user visiting activities of the  entire sales system and marketing channels, established a  liaison system for related enforcement departments to timely  track and evaluate the implementation of the plan and make  prompt feedback on the problems, needs and resolutions  that user visits has revealed.  In 2011, more than 6,141 visits were paid to users  above the direct supply level, accounting for 90.39% of all  planned visits. case Localized Operation of Baosteel Europe GMBH Baosteel Europe GMBH operates in 124 countries across Europe, Africa, the Middle East and  the CIS, covering a total area of 74,160,000 square kilometers and a total population of 2.289  billion. Targeted at both developed and rich European countries whose per capita GDP exceed  USD25,000 and the underdeveloped and poverty-stricken Africa with a per capita GDP of only  USD1,694. Baosteel Europe has always aimed to provide localized services and create value for  various customers.  Sales branches close to customers Given the vast area and the diverse market conditions covered, Baosteel Europe Gmbh,  have, in addition to the Headquarters in Hamburg, Germany, established subsidiaries in Italy,  Spain and the U.A.E. as well as a representative office in Poland according to the market develop- ment level and users demand for localized services quick response. In 2011, Baosteel Europe  conducted market investigations successively in Nigeria of West Africa, South Africa, and Kenya  of east Africa with a view to finding a proper location for a new office and further improving its  network layout.  Localized delivery to customers As the steel industry has entered an era of meager profit, the traditional back-to-back  trading approach will not only fail to meet users needs, but also make it difficult for the company  to survive. In 2011, in addition to the door-to-door delivery of 60,000 tons of high-grade car pan- els, Baosteel Europe GMBH also delivered 7,815 tons of sheared steel to Fiat (Italy) through the  NSM shearing center jointly established with local capital, further enhanced the localized capacity  of Baosteel in Europe. In 2011, the proportion of door-to-door delivery in Spain and Portugal in- creased from one third to nearly 90%. At the end of 2011, Baosteel Europe GMBH purchased 160  tons of stainless steel as an inventory in Germany to explore localized sales model for stainless  steel and deepen the long-term cooperation with local customers.  case Hand in Hand with Electrolux Baosteel America Inc. has always given full play to the advantages of regional offices, impressed users with  quality services, aroused their feelings through communications and inspired them with sincerity and enthusiasm.  After years of exploration and accumulation, it has gradually forged stable strategic partnership with Electrolux Brazil  based on mutual trust. In face of various differences in languages, cultures, laws, trade practices and market environment, Baosteel  America Inc. made full use of its regional advantages to gain in-depth understanding of the local market of Brazil,  and visited target customers to promote Baosteel products and strengthen communications with the procurement  and technical personnel. At the end of 2007, years of efforts finally paid off as Baosteel America Inc. became the first  overseas supplier of Electrolux Brazil. To strengthen communications and contact, marketing staff of Baosteel America Inc. established a regular  exchange mechanism with the customer and kept providing quality services to deepen business relations. In recent  years, Baosteel has gradually optimized its operations, technical services, logistics and execution of contracts. The  business personnel has kept regular exchanges with the counterparts of Electrolux Brazil and responded to their con- cerns and problems in a timely manner. Baosteel adopted a long-term payment method according to the practice of  local suppliers. In terms of technical services, Baosteel overseas companies has established direct contact with users  through quality managers to address their technical difficulties as soon as possible. In terms of logistics, Baosteel has  shifted its delivery approach from monthly bulk delivery to installment delivery so as to ease the storage pressure  of the users and meet their requirements for timely material planning. Meanwhile, to ensure timely and effective  communication, the sales and technical service teams of Baosteel headquarters paid regular visits to the customer,  providing first-class marketing services and winning full trust. For years, Baosteel has insisted on the principle of service first, provided localized and customized services in  relation to commerce, technology, logistics and documentation, given full play to the value creation effect, strength- ened its competitiveness and enhanced customer loyalty. At the same time, the cooperation between Baosteel and  Electrolux Brazil has continuously deepened and expanded from one plant to three plants, from single product  variety to several and from one component to multiple components. Recently, Baosteel has extended its business  partnership from Electrolux Brazil to Electrolux Chile. In this way, Baosteel has further practiced the service principle  of customer orientation, the marketing principle of developing global users and the strategic concept of going  global and achieved a win-win situation with the customer. case Chinas First Visual Auto-use Steel Demand Pulling Sys- tem: A new marketing model based on VSS demand pulling system The first domestic auto-use steel demand pulling system has made its debut recently.  This system, jointly developed by Shanghai Baosteel International Economic & Trading  Co., Ltd. (Baosteel International) and Shanghai General Motors Co., Ltd. (Shanghai GM), a  strategic customer of Baosteel, has ushered in a new model of deepening supply chain  cooperation between iron and steel companies and automobile enterprises in our country.  Both the automobile enterprises and Baosteel have their own independent supply  chains, but independence of the chains hindered real-time information sharing. Informa- tion transfer between the two systems can only be done through manual input, which  has a number of disadvantages such as high error rate, low efficiency and delay. The delay  and the asymmetry of information between the two systems forced Baosteel to increase  its inventory to avoid inadequate stock, causing high cost for stock management to both  Baosteel itself and the user. In response, the project team formed by Baosteel International,  Shanghai Bao-Mit, Yantai Bao-Mit, the car plate sales department of Baosteel Co., Ltd.,  Bsteel and Baosight worked together with Shanghai GM to build the information-based  supply chain system. Through joint efforts, the visual auto-use steel demand pulling system  was developed. The system has realized seamless connection of the whole supply chain  from Baosteel to the automobile enterprises, enabling them to share visualized, real-time  information in the procurement and supply links. With this system, automobile enterprises  can inquire about and monitor its own material demand conditions and the production  and stock conditions of Baosteel in real time so as to know each link well. Meanwhile, Bao- steel can obtain the users production information of each car model or each component  more directly from the system prompt to generate the accurate material demand informa- tion of the user and arrange its own production plan. In this way, the material supply plan  can be generated automatically based on car production scheduling, enabling Baosteel  and its users to form an integrated whole.  The greatest feature of the VSS system is that it allows users to feel at ease. Its innova- tions are mainly reflected in: a) visualization: Direct-view and dimensioned management  of the entire supply chain makes the whole process simple, efficient and accurate; b) early  warning: this feature can significantly reduce the risk in the supply chain and avoid the lo- gistics cost arising from emergency pull. The VSS system is our joint achievement, and also  a starting point to direct both of us towards more comprehensive development. Zhang Qifeng, Senior Manager of the Procurement Department,  Shanghai GM case Baosteel CSR Report / 77 76 Supply Chain Performance   You are a reliable partner. BLHI took over the challenge of completing the delivery two months in advance and overcame it better than expected. Your  ability is incredible. You are a trusted partner, Thomas Moline, general manager of the manufacturing department of I2S LLC, USA,  wrote in his letter of thanks. In January 2011, after undertaking the entire arch project of the U.S. Olympic Steel, I2S LLC entrusted the processing task of  two arches and twp base anchors with a total weight of 125 tons   to Changzhou Baoling Heavy & Industry Machinery Co., Ltd.  (BLHI), a joint venture of Baosteel.  The contract delivery date was July 25, 2011. However, as the project was to be put into opera- tion ahead of time, Olympic Steel required I2S to complete the overall arch device processing two months earlier. Thus, I2S had no  alternative but propose emergency consultation with BLHI. In face of the customers fervent expectations, BLHI decided to do its utmost to meet the requirements. The production units  were pressing on with this project. They carefully set the corresponding tolerance scope, timely completed inch conversion of proj- ect drawings and strengthened process management and quality control. To ensure the paint may meet the U.S. standards, BLHI  invited professionals to screen the paint varieties and conduct special tests. Taking into account the long cycle of sea transport in  bad weather, BLHI added a layer of aluminum foil on the basis of original packaging to protect all equipment. On May 25, 2011, the  arch equipment carefully manufactured by BLHI for the U.S. customer under the protection of dedicated packaging departed from  the Shanghai Port. Impressed by the high-quality services of BLHI employees, premium services, I2S LLC has carried out business meetings with  BLHI on a number of follow-up projects. case Awards by Customers Honors and Awards Customers Awardees Excellent supplier Tebian Electric Apparatus Co., Ltd. Baosteel Co., Ltd. Strategic partner Beijing Embraco Snowflake Compressor  Company Ltd. Baosteel Co., Ltd. Award  Jiangsu GMO Hi-Tech Co., Ltd. Baosteel Co., Ltd. Golden supplier in 2010 Caterpillar Inc. Baosteel Co., Ltd. Strategic supplier Xuzhou Construction Machinery Group  (XCMG) Baosteel Co., Ltd. Best supplier in 2011 Gansu COFCO Coca-Cola Beverages Co. Ltd Baosteel Can Co., Ltd. Baosteel CSR Report / 79 78 Supply Chain Performance  In November, 8 projects of Baosteel won gold and silver prizes in the  63rd German Nuremberg International Invention Exhibition, account- ing for half of the awards won by Chinese exhibitors. On December 2, Baosteel Co., Ltd. was selected as one of Chinas  Most Respected Knowledge-based Organizations and won the indi- vidual award for Best Knowledge and Technology Applications. On December 12, Baosteel Co., Ltd. was honored as the Most Socially  Responsible Listed Company on the 2011 Reputation List of Chins  Listed Companies. On December 23, two management innovation achievements of  Baosteel received the first prize and the second prize respectively in  the selection of 2011 Metallurgical Enterprise Management Mod- ernization Innovation Achievements, i.e. the Democratic Employee  Management based on Three Core Systems in Large State-owned  Enterprises by the Trade Union of Baosteel Group Corporation and  the Monitoring of Trade Friction Risk and the Construction and Im- plementation of Response System from a Global Perspective by the  Marketing Management Department of Baosteel Co., Ltd.  On December 28, Baosteel was selected as one of Chinas Annual Top  10 Innovative Companies with its comprehensive advantages in inno- vation, management, technology and other aspects.   Highlights 2011  On March 4, Baosteel Group Corporation was granted the Outstand- ing Contribution Award for Central Enterprises Participating in 2010  World Expo and was recognized by the State-owned Assets Supervi- sion and Administration Commission (SASAC) of the State Council. On March 16, Baosteel Co., Ltd. was selected as one of the Top 100  Chinese Corporate Social Responsibility Performers, which was re- leased for the first time by Fortune (China), and ranked 5th among the  top 50 local enterprises and 1st among the 12 selected local compa- nies in the raw material industry.  On March 18, Baosteel Group Corporation was listed among the  2010 Most Admired Companies of the World by the American For- tune magazine and ranked 7th in the global metal industry.  On April 28, Baosteel Group Corporation won the 2nd China Industrial  Award, which is the highest and most influential award in the industry  at home.  On May 6, five projects of Baosteel received Shanghai Science and  Technology Awards. Among them, three projects won the second  prizes, including the development of high-performance enamel steel  sheet, the advance of sintering flue gas desulfurization technology  and the development of high sulphur resistant oil casing products;  two projects won the third prizes, i.e. the research on surface quality  control of 1800 cold rolled sheet, and the development and applica- tion of seawater corrosion resistant steel and supporting welding  materials.  On June 22, Baosteel won the award of 2010 Golden Bee  Leading  Enterprise, the highest prize on the honor roll of the Golden Bee  Corporate Social Responsibility  China List.  On June 27, Baosteel Group Corporation was granted the Shanghai  Municipal Special Award for Professional Ethics by Shanghai Federa- tion of Trade Unions.  On July 6, Baosteel ranked 18th on the 2011 List of 500 Brands with  Most Values in China published by the World Brand Lab, with an in- crease of RMB11.563 billion in brand value. Awards On July 7, Baosteel moved up to 212th on the Fortune Global 500 list  from 276th in 2010. On July 22, Baosteel Group Corporation won the 2010 China Charity  Award  Most Caring Domestic Enterprise. This is the third time that  Baosteel was granted with the China Charity Award. On August 22, Baosteel swept 98 awards with its inventions at the  20th National Invention Exhibition and was granted the Excellent Dis- play Award by the Organizing Committee of the Exhibition.  On September 14, Baosteel Group Corporation won the honour of  2010 Leading Central Enterprise of Financial Management".   On September 15, three projects of Baosteel were granted the 2010  China Quality Technical Awards by China Association for Quality, of  which the research on key technology of e-procurement and supply  chain collaboration under game-based bidding model got the first  prize; the other two projects on the control technology of large-scale  hot dip galvanizing unit strip and outer plate quality improvement  of cold-rolled high-quality home appliances" both won the third  prizes.  On September 15, Baosteel Co., Ltd. won the title of 2009-2010 An- nual National Quality Work Advanced Unit, the highest honour in the  field of quality management in China.  On October 8, Baosteel Group Corporation was granted the honour  of 2011 Advanced Unit for Statistics in Steel Industry and was cited by  China Iron and Steel Association.  On November 1, two achievements of Baosteel received the first  prizes in the selection of 2011 Metallurgical Enterprise Manage- ment Modernization Innovation Achievements, i.e. the Innovation  and Practice of Management Auditing Mode for Large Transnational  Companies" by Auditing Department of Baosteel Group Corporation  and "Monitoring of Trade Friction Risk under Global Horizon and the  Construction and Implementation of Response System" by Marketing  Management Department of Baosteel Ltd. On November 5, Baosteel won the gold prize at the 2011 China In- ternational Industry Fairs with its project on advanced high-strength  strip products, processes and equipment.  On November 15, Baosteel ranked 359 among the 2011 Global 500  Green Enterprises.  On November 15, Baosteel Group Corporation won the title of 12th  National Advanced Units for Professional Ethnics and won the Na- tional Labor Award.  On November 16, five achievements of Baosteel won the 2011 China  Metallurgical Science and Technology Awards, among which the  project of "R&D on process and complete set of equipment for high  speed pickling and rolling of ultra-thin steel strip" was awarded the  only special prize.  On November 22, the 2010 CSR Report of Baosteel was awarded with  Excellent Innovation Award of Global Model Report in the selection  of the UN Global Compact  Model Report Award of China Corporate  Social Responsibility. In November, three world-renowned rating agencies gave Baosteel  the highest credit rating in the industry. S & Ps and Moodys rated  Baosteel at A and A3 respectively, both with outlook stable; Fitch  Ratings affirmed A-, with supply chain performance outlook stable,  enabling Baosteel to become one of the companies with the highest  ratings in the global steel industry. / 81 80 Baosteel CSR Report Highlights 2011   Major Events Jan. 1 / Baosteels long and mid-term human  resources development plan (2010-2020) was  formally released. Jan. 11 / The 2011 Baosteel Annual Work Con- ference was held, which proposed to seriously  implement the new round of development plan- ning and make the company better and stronger.  Jan. 18 / The 2010 Baosteel Person of the Year  awarding ceremony was held at the Opera Hall  of Shanghai Oriental Art Center. Jan. 20 / Baosteel Crade3 bearing steel, which in- cluded three product grades, passed the quality  certification of the worlds leading Sweden bear- ing manufacturer SKF. Crade3K is the highest  level of high carbon chromium bearing steel. Jan. 28 / Baosteel successfully produced B96LX  extremely high strength steel cord wire rod. Ac- cording to inspection, the product performance  has reached all the design requirements, which  symbolizes that Baosteel's capability to manufac- ture steel cord has reached the international ad- vanced level, and has covered all series of steel  cord wire rod products. January / The -50 spherical tank slab indepen- dently developed by Baosteel was successfully  put into application, breaking the foreign mo- nopoly. January / Baosteel Co., Ltd. passed the National  Energy Management System Certification, be- coming one of the first certified enterprises  among domestic iron and steel peers. Jun. 1 / Baosteel Leadership, a book with Liu  Guosheng, Vice Chairman and Party Secretary of  Baosteel Group Corporation as the chief editor,  was published. Jun. 10 / Youth League School of Baosteel was  reopened. Jun.14 / Luo Huining, Governor of Qinghai Prov- ince and Deputy Secretary of Qinghai Provincial  Party Committee, paid a visit to Baosteel. Jun. 17-18 / In response to Baosteel leaders'  requirement for brand building, Baosteel invited  Chief Senior Consultant Dr. Philip Kotler and  Global Chairman Milton Kotler of Kotler Advisory  Group to give lectures on brand management. May 16 / The X100 steel grade UOE longitudinal  submerged welded pipe with the largest wall  thickness and diameter in China was successfully  tried out by Baosteel. May 17 / Baosteel signed strategic cooperation  framework agreement with Harbin Electric Cor- poration. May 20 / Shanghai Federation of Trade Unions  named the first 20 Model Innovation Work- shops in Shanghai, of which Baosteel Kong Lim- ing Electrical Technology Innovation Workshop  ranked first. May 24 / Baosteel exclusively released the Green  Declaration and Product Environment Statement  in the steel industry, manifesting the companys  firm determination to implement the scientific  outlook on development and adhering to the  road of green development. Meanwhile, it is also  a major progress to disclose the environmental  performance of the products in Chinese steel  industry. May 24 / Chinas first 840,000 kVA / 500 kV main  transformer made of Baosteel oriented silicon  steel with high magnetic induction was officially  put into operation at the Three Gorges under- ground power station, breaking Chinas depen- dence on imports of high-grade oriented silicon  steel for large transformers.  Apr. 1 / Baosteel (Changshu) Leadership Devel- opment Center, also known as Baosteel Shanghu  Village, was officially opened. Apr.9 / Baosteel-Australia Joint R&D Center was  established. It is the first overseas joint develop- ment center set up by Baosteel, and is an inte- gral part of Baosteels overall strategy of interna- tionalized deployment of R&D resources.  Apr. 20 / Baosteel and China National Coal  Group Corp inked framework agreement for  strategic cooperation,  ushering in the all-round  cooperation between the two parties in trade,  resources development and information com- munication, etc. Apr. 27 / Three projects of Baosteel were granted  the 2010 China Quality Technical Awards by Chi- na Association for Quality, of which the research  on key technology of e-procurement and supply  chain collaboration under game-based bidding  model conducted jointly with Bsteel won the  first prize. Apr.28 / Baosteel Group Corporation won the  2nd China Industrial Award. Apr. 29 / The super-large ship Baotan, with  drought depth of 13.5 meters and load capacity  of 115,000 tons, berthed at Baosteel Raw Materi- als Wharf carrying imported iron ores, setting  a new record of draft depth in the deepwater  channel of the Yangtze River and signifying the  successful docking between Baosteel raw materi- als terminal and the deepwater channel of the  Yangtze River. Mar. 16 / Baosteel Human Resources Manage- ment Standards BS-HR8000 (Interim) was re- leased, signifying Baosteel has entered into the  stage of standardized and professional human  resources management which allows indepen- dent innovation of departments and stimulates  unified development of the Group. Mar. 16 / The first session of Enhancing Pro- fessional Ability Training Program was held,  unveiling the two-year training series aimed at  enhancing the professional skills of employees at  Baosteel Headquarters.  Mar. 16 / Baosteel continued to promote the  building of green industrial chain and has been  the first in the steel industry to release the Green  Procurement Guideline.  Mar. 18 / Baosteel signed strategic cooperation  agreement with Fujian province and took the op- portunity of the restructuring of Fujian Desheng  Nickel Industry Co., Ltd. to build a green manu- facturing base of stainless steel. Mar. 18 / Baosteel got the contract on 43,000  tons of sea pipe for the South China Sea deep- water natural gas pipeline, marking Baosteel UOE  thick-walled pipeline has extended from the land  toward the ocean. Mar. 21 / Jointly funded by Baosteel Chemical,  Bsteel and Wuhan Iron and Steel Joint Coking  Company, Shanghai B-chem E-Commerce Co.,  Ltd. was set up, becoming the first online in- formation and trading platform in Chinas coal  chemical industry. Mar. 27 / Baosteel, LanzaTech from New Zealand  and Chinese Academy of Sciences jointly kicked  off the worlds first pilot project on using ex- haust of steel plants to make ethanol in Luojing,  Shanghai. March / Baosteel Group Corporation was listed  among the 2010 Worlds Most Admired Com- panies by the Fortune magazine and ranked 7th  in the global metal industry.  March / Baosteel Group Corporation ranked 3rd  on the list of Global Top 20 Steel Enterprises. Feb. 21 / Baosteel drill rod successfully drilled  8023 meters deep into underground in Tarim  Oilfield, creating the new record of ultra-deep  well drilling by China-made rod. Feb. 25 / At the Appraisal Meeting of Central  Enterprises Participating in the 2010 Shanghai  Expo held by the SASAC of the State Council,  Baosteel was granted the Outstanding Contribu- tion Award of Central Enterprise Participating in  2010 World Expo; Baosteel Corporate Culture  Department (World Expo Office) and World Expo  CPC Working Group was honored as the Ad- vanced Group of Central Enterprises Participating  in 2010 World Expo; and five staff, i.e. Ouyang  Yingpeng, Fu Shuizhong, Pu Kangguo, Jiang  Qingdi and Zuo Sen, won the title of Advanced  Individual of Central Enterprises Participating in  2010 World Expo. January February March April May June  / 83 82 Highlights 2011  Baosteel CSR Report  Dec. 2 / The Zhaobao Action Plan - Comprehen- sive Strategic Cooperation Framework Agree- ment was signed by and between Baosteel and  China Merchants Group. Dec. 5 / The Sixth Plenary Session of the Third  Committee of Baosteel CPC Branch was held, at  which the Opinions on Further Strengthening  the Construction of Corporate Culture and the  Opinions on Further Strengthening the Building  of Party Branch (Interim) were deliberated and  approved.  Dec. 18 / All formalities for the steel bases of  Bayi Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. in Baicheng county,  Aksu and Yili city were completed, marking the  strategic development planning of Bayi Steel has  entered a substantive stage. Dec. 27 / The new product of one-time dry pow- der enamel steel developed by Baosteel passed  the certification of Howden UK, the worlds  largest manufacturer of electric environmental  equipment. This product, the first of its kind in  China, will be widely applied to the flue gas de- sulfurization and denitrification at thermal power  plant.  Dec. 28th / At the 2011 China Independent Inno- vation Annual Meeting, Baosteel was awarded as  one of China's Top Ten Innovative Enterprises. Nov. 5 / Baosteel won the gold prize at the 2011  China International Industry Fairs with its project  on advanced high-strength strip products, pro- cesses and equipment.  Nov. 6 / Baosteel exhibited 8 projects at the 5th  International Warsaw Invention Show and won 7  golden prizes and 1 silver prize.  Nov. 8 / The Corporate Social Responsibility  Bluebook 2011 released by Chinas Academy of  Social Sciences rated Baosteel at 7th in terms of  the Social Responsibility Development Index.  Nov. 15 / Baosteel Group Corporation won the  title of 12th National Advanced Units for Pro- fessional Ethnics and won the National Labor  Award.  Nov. 17 / The hot load test of Baosteel oriented  silicon steel phase II project was conducted,  marking that the phase II project was completed  and put into production comprehensively.  Nov. 22 / The 2010 CSR Report of Baosteel was  awarded with Excellent Innovation Award of  Global Model Report in the selection of the UN  Global Compact  Model Report Award of China  Corporate Social Responsibility.  Nov. 24 / The awarding ceremony of 2011 Bao- steel Education Award was held. Nov. 25 / Baosteel successfully issued 3.6-bil- lion offshore RMB-denominated bonds in Hong  Kong. It is the first time that Chinese mainland  non-financial enterprise has issued bonds di- rectly in Hong Kong. Nov. 28 / Experience Exchange of Central Enter- prise Employees on Economic and Technological  Innovation was held in Baosteel. Oct. 7 / Baoshipping 18", the first ship manufac- tured by Baosteel Shipping, berthed at Baosteel  Co., Ltd. Raw Material Wharf safely, signifying the  smooth completion of its maiden voyage. Oct. 17 / Baosteel ranked 359 on the list of 2011  Global 500 Green Enterprises released by the  U.S. News Week.  Oct. 29 / Baosteel won 3 golden prizes and 1  copper prize at the 63rd International Innovation  Exhibition in Nuremberg, Germany. Oct. 31 / The Trade Union of Baosteel Co., Ltd.  was selected as one of the National Ten Red  Flag Units by the All-China Federation of Trade  Unions (ACFTU).  October / Baosteel Childrens Welfare Institute in  Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, Qinghai,  was completed and put into operation.  Sep. 7-8 / Baosteel Metal and Baosteel Resourc- es held the signing ceremony to introduce the  tenure system for leaders of Baosteel on a trial  basis.  Sep. 18 / Baosteel donated millions to the earth- quake-stricken area in Shigatse, Tibet. Sep. 18 / Guinea's President Alpha Conde visited  Baosteel. Sep. 20-21 / National Conference on Production  Safety Training and Talent Fostering was held in  Baosteel. Sep. 26 / The BG2250-125 BGC nickel base al- loy casing products with the domestic largest  specification and highest grade was successfully  developed in Baosteel. Sep. 28 / Younglim Choi, member of the Stand- ing Committee of Political Bureau of Labour Par- ty and Prime Minister of DPRK, visited Baosteel. Sep. 29 / Baosteel Group Corporation was listed  among the Most Admired Companies by the  Fortune magazine.  Sep. 30 / The 2011 China Metallurgical Science  and Technology Award was unveiled, and Bao- steels project of R&D on process and complete  set of equipment for high speed pickling and  rolling of ultra-thin steel strip won the only spe- cial prize.  Aug. 8 / Baosteel Committee of China Demo- cratic National Construction Association was  established. Aug. 18 / The laboratory testing and non- destructive testing of Baosteel Special Steel  Business Unit passed the Nadcap certification  (National Aerospace and Defense Contractors  Accreditation Program) successively, the top  standard in international aerospace field. Aug. 22 / Baosteel swept 98 awards at the 20th  National Invention Exhibition, including 25 gold- en prizes, 28 silver prizes and 45 copper prizes.  Aug. 25 / Baosteel held the 2011 Staff Economic  and Technological Innovation Forum themed  position innovation and corporate competitive- ness.   Jul. 7 / Baosteel ranked 212th on the 2011 For- tune Global 500 list with revenue of RMB272.984  billion and net profit of RMB23.159 billion. Jul. 15 / Baosteel Group Corporation won the  2010 China Charity Award  Most Caring Do- mestic Enterprise, the third time that Baosteel  was granted with China Charity Award. This  Award is hosted by the Ministry of Civil Affairs  and is the highest government award in Chinas  charity field.  Jul. 18 / Baosteel released the 2010 Corporate  Social Responsibility Report, proposing to  implement the idea of environmental-friendly  operations and embrace the new era of the steel  industry.  Jul. 18 / Baosteel Environment-friendly Product  Handbook was published. As the first steel enter- prise publishing this handbook in the state, Bao- steel is aiming to convey the concept of forging  green industrial chain to the clients and pushing  forward the development of environmental pro- tection together with the clients. Jul. 20 / Baosteel signed agreement with the  government of Shanghai Municipality to be- come one of the first three central enterprises to  settled in the EXPO Park. Jul. 28 / Initiated by Baosteel Group Corporation,  Chinas first fabricated steel civil industrial tech- nology innovation strategic alliance was officially  established in Shanghai, bringing together 23  industry-leading enterprises, higher education  institutions and research institutions. July August  September  October  November  December  / 85 84 Highlights 2011  Baosteel CSR Report  GRI Indicators Description of indicators in the Report  Page EC1 EC2 EC3 EC4 EC5 EC6 EC7 EC8 EC9 29 41 56  56 70\71 52 64-67 30 EN1/ EN2 EN3-EN7 EN8-EN10 EN11-EN15 EN16-EN25 EN26/EN27 EN28 EN29 EN3 General status   49 49  49 44-47  70 41 LA1 LA2 LA3 LA4 LA5 LA6 LA7 LA8 LA9 LA10 LA11 LA12 LA13 LA14 52 52 56 61 61 58 58 58 61 52 53 51 52 56 SO1 SO2 SO3 SO4 SO5 SO6 SO7 SO8 64-67 26 26 26     PR1 PR2 PR3 PR4 PR5 PR6/ PR7 PR8 PR9 44-47    76 76   Feedback Form Thank you for reading this Baosteel CSR Report 2010. Baosteel is greatly concerned about your comments and opinions, so that we can improve the report  accordingly. Please fax the form to 86-21-68403773 after answering the following questions, or mail it to:  Corporate Communication Dept.,  Room 2105, Baosteel Tower, No. 370 Pudian Road,  Pudong New Area, 200122 Shanghai 1. Have you found all information you need in this report? 2. Your comments and opinions: E-mail: Tel.: Name: Title: Personal information: Description of indicators in the Report  Page 1.1 Statement from the Management of the Corporation about the sustainability of the organization and  its strategy 3 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities  3 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 2.7 2.8 2.9 2.10 Name of the organization Primary brands, products or services  Organization structure, including key departments, companies, subsidiaries and JVs Location of the headquarters  Major countries covered by business operations Type and legal form of the Corporation  Market served Size of the Corporation Significant changes during the reporting period in size, structure and ownership  Awards received in the reporting period 6 6 12 Back cover 6 6 6 6  80 3.1 Information in the reporting period Cover page 2 3.2 Information of the most recent report Cover page 2 3.3 Reporting cycle Cover page 2 3.4 Contact for questions regarding the report or its content  Cover page 2 3.5 Process for defining the reports content 17 3.6 Boundary of the report Cover page 2 3.7 Specific limitations on the boundary of the report Cover page 2 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations and other  entities  3.9 Data measurement techniques and the basis for calculation, including assumptions applied to  complex indictors in the report and technical estimation  3.10 Explanations on re-stated information provided in previous reports  3.11 Application of the significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or  measurement method  3.12 GRI content index  86 3.13 External serving policies and practices 16 4.1 Organizational structure including committees subordinate to the Management and responsible for  special tasks 23 4.2 Indicate whether the chairman of the highest governance body is also a CEO 23 4.3 Number of independent or non-administrative members of the Management 10 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to give recommendations or direction to the highest  governance body 60 4.5 Linkage between compensation of the Management members, senior managers and administrative  staff and the organizations performance 56 4.6 Processes adopted by the Management to avoid conflicts of interest 23 4.7 Processes for determining the qualification and expertise of the Management 23 4.8 Procedures in the management system for overseeing the identification and management of  economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, re- statement of or obedience to internationally recognized standards, code of conduct and principles 23 4.9 Procedures in the highest governance body for overseeing the management of economic,  environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, re-statement of or  obedience to internationally recognized standards, code of conduct and principles 24 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect  to economic, environmental, and social performance 23 4.11 Active preventive measures 23 4.12 The economic, environmental and social external contract, regulations or other acts signed or  initiated by the Company  4.13 Memberships in associations or organizations  4.14 List of stakeholders engaged in operations 18\19 4.15 Referred basis and process of the definition and selection of stakeholders  18\19 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 20 4.17 Topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement and how the organization has  responded  18\19 Baosteel CSR Report  This Report was translated by China Translation and  Publishing Corporation, Translation and Interpretation  Project Sponsor of EXPO 2010 Shanghai China