2012 S O C I A L  A N D   ENVIRONMENTAL R E P O R T  2 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 The OKI Group's initiatives of corporate social  responsibility (CSR) focus on contributing  to the improvement of the quality of life for people  around the world through sound corporate activities  based on our corporate philosophy. The people of OKI, true to the companys "enterprising spirit," are committed  to creating superior network solutions and providing excellent information and  communications services globally to meet the diversified needs of communities  worldwide in the information age. Corporate Philosophy OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct For the betterment of corporate value, the OKI Group (Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. and members of its group  of companies) seeks to provide satisfaction to its customers at all times and to become a trusted partner for our  stakeholders, including shareholders and investors, employees, customers and suppliers, and the local societies  of the areas in which it operates. In addition to complying with all related laws and regulations, the OKI Group will  implement sound corporate activities consistent with social norms, and contribute to the improvement of the quality  of life for people around the world. Customer Satisfaction The OKI Group is dedicated to developing and providing  products and services that ensure continued customer  satisfaction, in full consideration of safety and ease of use. Fair Corporate Activities The OKI Group conducts appropriate transactions and  works to ensure fair, transparent, and free competition. Good Communication The OKI Group engages with society through a variety  of interactions, and discloses company information in  manners that are appropriate and fair. Intellectual Property and Information  Management The OKI Group recognizes the importance of intellectual  property, and properly manages and protects company  and customer information, including personal information. Respect for Human Rights The OKI Group respects the human rights of all persons  involved in its corporate activities and eliminates illicit  discrimination of any kind. It does not allow child labor nor  forced labor. A Better Working Environment The OKI Group ensures and maintains a safe and  comfortable working environment for all employees. Respect for Employees Respecting the individuality of each employee, the OKI  Group creates a corporate culture in which its personnel  are encouraged to engage challenges facing the  groupwith courage and determination. Environmental Conservation In order to realize and pass on a better global environment,  the OKI Group promotes environmental management and  makes efforts to conserve the environment through its  products and its business activities. Social Contribution As a good corporate citizen, the OKI Group implements  social contribution activities dedicated to the betterment of  society. Regional Awareness The OKI Group endeavors to build a positive relationship  and grow together with local societies, respecting the  cultures and customs of the countries and regions in which it  operates.  3 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 Code of Conduct which is to be conformed to by all  executives and employees of the group. We have  disseminated the charter and the code across the group  through various means such as training programs. We have  also defined seven priority themes to be pursued. The CSR  Division, an organization dedicated to CSR-related efforts,  takes the initiative in promoting activities under these themes.   We will continue to make every effort to fulfill our social  responsibility based on our corporate philosophy by ensuring  that each member of the group complies with the OKI Group  Charter of Corporate Conduct and the OKI Group Code of  Conduct.   The OKI Group, as described in its corporate philosophy,  aims at contributing to the improvement of the quality of life  for people around the world through its core business,  namely the manufacturing and distribution of products and  services that can serve the development of the information  age. What underlies the group's CSR (corporate social responsibility) initiatives is our commitment to the pursuit and  fulfillment of this idea.   In order to cohesively promote our CSR initiatives, we  enacted the OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct as a  statement of values to be shared by all member companies  ofthe group. In addition, we also established the OKI Group   Social Responsibilities in Business Compliance Customer Satisfaction Fair Corporate Activities Good Communication IntellectualProperty and Information Management A Better Working Environment Respect for Employees Environmental Conservation Social Contribution Regional Awareness Respect for HumanRights Corporate Activities Creation of Economic Value Employees Governments Local Communities Shareholders/Investors Customers The OKI Groups Activities Stakeholders NPO/NGO Global Environment Business Partners Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Contributing to the Improvement of the Quality of Life for People around the World Corporate Philosophy OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Statement of values OKI Group companies need to share OKI Group Code of Conduct Code of conduct to be conformed by all OKI executive officers and employees Foundation of CSR at the OKI Group CSR Initiatives by the OKI Group Participation in the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights: Principle 1:  Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally  proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2:  make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.  Labor:  Principle 3:  Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective  recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6:  the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and  occupation. Environment:  Principle 7:  Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental  challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9:  encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly  technologies. Anti-Corruption:  Principle 10:  Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including  extortion and bribery. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact   OKI has participated  in the United Nations  Global Compact since  May 2010. The UN Global Compact is a CSR  initiative proposed by  then-UN Secretary-  General Kofi Annan at the World Economic Forum  meeting in January 1999. It was officially launched in July  2000.    The OKI Group supports the Global Compact's ten  principles in the areas of human rights, labor,  environment, and anti-corruption, and thus further  enhances its CSR activities and contributes to the  realization of sustainable society.  4 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012   OKI commemorated its 130th anniversary in November  2011.  In order to take on the challenge of producing  telephone sets in Japan, Kibataro Oki, the company's founder,  established Meikosha, the country's first manufacturer of  telecommunications equipment in 1881 only five years after  Alexander Graham Bell's invention of the telephone, and laid  the first foundation of Today's OKI Group. Since then, we have  always  been committed to "creating new businesses with new  technologies" and "making the world more convenient." This  commitment embodies our corporate philosophy that underlies  our CSR initiatives: "The people of OKI, true to the company's  'enterprising spirit,' are committed to creating superior network  solutions and providing excellent global information and  communications services to meet the diversified needs of  communities worldwide in the information age."   Based on this philosophy, the OKI Group's mission is to  contribute to society through our products and services. They  are created by the results of our business activities  characterized by the integration of sales and marketing,  technology development, production, and maintenance. More  specifically, we accurately understand the needs of society,  establish element technologies and manufacturing  technologies, achieve a level of quality that truly satisfies  customers, and offer reliable maintenance systems ensuring  secure, long-time use of our products and service. As an  outcome of such activities, today we provide many products  and services that constitute and maintain social  infrastructures. Among them are telecommunication  infrastructure for carriers, operational systems for financial  institutions, automated teller machines (ATMs), and various  public service systems including disaster prevention  systems.    In order to further serve customers and society in this  age of volatility and change, our mid-term business plan for  the period from 2011 to 2013 focuses on bolstering efforts for  growth under the following two strategies:     OKI provides products and services to contribute to the  development of the information society through joint  efforts by sales and marketing, technology development,  production, and maintenance.     OKI aims to become a company that makes steady  growth by generating profit stably. Grounded in the solid business base constructed through  various efforts we have made thus far, we will shift to  consolidated group management, enhance "monozukuri" (the  art of manufacturing), strengthen our service business, and  create new businesses based on our unique technologies in  order to help people enjoy a more improved quality of life. We keep our customers' trust and  help people enjoy an improved quality  of life through our ongoing efforts and  sincere business activities based on an "enterprising spirit." A Message from the President We will fulfill our responsibilities  to society in accordance with our  corporate philosophy. We contribute to society through our  products and services.  5 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012      In order to advance responsible management as a global  enterprise, the OKI Group has enhanced corporate  governance and facilitated the implementation of group-wide CSR-related activities. Part of such efforts was the enactment  of the OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct, the statement  of values to be shared with all group companies, and the OKI  Group Code of Conduct that should be conformed by all  executive officers and employees. We have disseminated the  charter and the code across all companies of the OKI Group  inside and outside Japan.       Furthermore, OKI participated in the United Nations Global  Compact in 2010. Since then, we have further promoted our  CSR activities based on the Global Compact's ten principles in  the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti- corruption. Fully aware of our responsibilities as a global  enterprise, we will continue to help build a sustainable society.   From this perspective, we believe that proactive actions  for reducing environmental load form an integral part of the  OKI Group's corporate activities. In order to understand global  environmental issues and contribute to the realization of a  better global environment, we enacted the OKI Group  Environmental Vision 2020 in April 2012. The vision outlines the  basic directions of the group's environmental management  and sets targets for 2020 in four fields of "Realization of a  low-carbon society," "Prevention of pollution," "Resource  circulation" and "Biodiversity conservation." In accordance with  the vision, we will enhance our efforts about business activities  and products.   With a number of significant incidents and changes in the  business environment inside and outside Japan, we had to  rethink the importance of sustainability and social  responsibility during 2011. Among them were the Great East  Japan Earthquake in March, Thailand floods in October,  supply-chain disruptions and electricity shortages due to these  natural disasters, economic crises in Europe, and rising yen.  As the OKI Group commemorated its 130th anniversary in the  same year, we saw this milestone as a fresh new beginning to  go back to the starting point, an "enterprising spirit." We are  now determined to further increase our corporate value  through sincere business activities. This Social and  Environmental Report 2012 is intended to help all stakeholders  better understand the OKI Group's social and environmental  activities carried out in fiscal 2011. We sincerely hope that as  many people as possible will read this report. Your honest  opinions regarding our CSR initiatives would be greatly  appreciated. June, 2012 Hideichi Kawasaki President Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. We contribute to the realization of a  better global environment in accordance  with the OKI Group Environmental  Vision 2020. We promote responsible corporate  management as a global corporation.  6 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 0 4,000 2,000 6,000 8,000 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 8,000 Net Sales  (Billions of yen) Employees (Number of employees) Fiscal year Fiscal year 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 Consolidated Non-consolidated Consolidated Non-consolidated 271.1 443.9 200.5 3,182 3,170 545.7 17,415 18,111 432.7 189.9 3,103 428.1 205.1 16,697 3,373 16,736 545.7 17,415 18,111 [ Information featured in this report ] [ Information provided on the website ]   Priority themes (Policies and systems and      other related information)      Significance to the OKI Group Stakeholders' interest  greater greater  Corporate governance  Priority themes    (Achievements in fiscal 2011)    Meeting  Our CSR Commitments  Stakeholders' interests   Discussions related to GRI and ISO26000   Initiatives in the industry such as  EICC,GeSI and JEITA   Opinions from stakeholders on the past  Social and Environmental Reports   Opinions from stakeholders collected  through various surveys of employees and  others  Significance to the OKI Group   Corporate Philosophy   The OKI Group Charter of Corporate  Conduct, the OKI Group Code of Conduct   The OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020  The OKI Group Environmental Policy   The United Nations Global Compact   Priority themes about CSR   Risk management and other issues The OKI Group offers telecommunication systems,  social systems, mechatronics system, and various  solutions & services utilizing its core technology of info-  telecommunication and mechatronics. Info-Telecom Systems The OKI Group manufactures printers for business  use utilizing its LED technology and distribute them  throughout the world. Printers The OKI Group offers EMS (Electronics Manufacturing  Services) and other services based on its highly  sophisticated design and production expertise  developed within the group. EMS and Others Company Profile Editorial Policy Profile Corporate Name:   Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. Founded in:   January 1888 Company Established:  November 1, 1949 Capital:   44 billion yen Employees:   16,736 (Consolidated), 3,373 (Non-consolidated)     *As of March 31, 2012 Head Office:   1-7-12 Toranomon, Minato-ku,    Tokyo 105-8460, Japan   TEL: +81-3-3501-3111 Business Segments   The OKI Group "Social and Environmental Report" featuring our  social and environmental efforts is published in order to inform our  stakeholders of the group's CSR (corporate social responsibility)  initiatives in an easy-to-understand way.   This report features four articles under the title "Meeting Our CSR  Commitments" that cover four key challenges for the OKI Group  in which our stakeholders as well as the public show an intense  interest. The report describes our seven priority themes concerning  social responsibility and our efforts made in fiscal 2011 as well. It  also includes the "Detailed Data" section at the end which covers  performance data concerning our environmental activities.   Detailed information on each priority theme, such as that on  specific policies and systems for it, are provided on our website.  The information on the website also includes a comparative table  that shows the relationship between the OKI Group's CSR activities  and the core themes of ISO26000. (Please see Page 19 for the  specific topics provided on the website.) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.0 (GRI)  Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012  (the Ministry of Environment)  Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005  (the Ministry of Environment) UN Global Compact COP (Communication on Progress) Policy Reference Guidelines GRI (Global Reporting Initiative): An international NGO that develops and disseminates globally applicable sustainability reporting guidelines.  ISO26000 (International Organization for Standardization 26000): An international standard providing guidelines for social responsibility (published in November, 2010). EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition): An alliance of electronic manufacturers focusing on CSR that has enacted a code of conduct in the supply chain.  GeSI (Global e-Sustainability initiative): A partnership of information and communications technology companies that collaborates with EICC about CSR management in the supply chain.  7 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 Net Sales by Business Segment  in fiscal 2011 (Consolidated) Net Sales by Market  in fiscal 2011 (Consolidated) Other regions 11.5 North America 4.0 Europe 11.9 Japan 72.6 EMS 7.3 Others 4.1 Info-  telecom  systems 62.4 Printers 26.2 428.1 billion yen 428.1 billion yen OKI Group's CSR    2 A Message from the President    4 Company Profile / Editorial Policy    6 CONTENTS    7 Special Features: Meeting Our CSR Commitments C O N T E N T S Corporate Governance    17 Promoting CSR at the OKI Group    18  Full Compliance with Laws and Regulations    20  Information Security    21  Improvement of Customer Satisfaction    22  Good Communications with Shareholders and Investors   23  Respect for Employees    24  Social Contribution    25  Consideration for the Environment    26 Detailed Data    28 Providing People with Safe and Secure Social Infrastructures    8 The OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 for Future Generations    10 Contributing to the Sustainable Development of the Countries and Regions in Which We Operate    14 Providing Customers with Sophisticated and Secure Information Security    16 1  2 3 4 Scope Covered by this Report  Time Period  This report covers fiscal 2011 (the year from April 1, 2011 to March 31,  2012). However, the report also discusses some facts preceding this period  as well as policies and plans to be implemented in subsequent periods.  Organizations  The report covers the activities of Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd., its  subsidiaries and affiliates inside and outside Japan. Environmental data  mentioned in this report refer to the following organizations: OKI  (Japan)  Toranomon district, Shibaura district, Honjo district, Takasaki district, Tomioka district, Numazu  district, Warabi district, Kansai Laboratory, Kitanihon Regional Office, Chubu Regional Office,  Kansai Regional Office, Chugoku/Shikoku Regional Office, Kyushu Regional Office Group  Companies  (Japan) OKI Data (Fukushima Distrtict), OKI Printed Circuit, Nagano OKI, Shizuoka OKI, OKI Sensor  Device, OKI Micro Engineering, OKI Digital Imaging, OKI Techno Power Systems, OKI Metaltech,  OKI Engineering, OKI Proserve, OKI Customer Adtech, OKI Communication Systems, OF Networks  Co., Ltd. Group  Companies  (Overseas)   OKI(UK), OKI Data Manufacturing(Thailand), OKI Telecommunications Technology (Changzhou),  OKI Electric Industry (Shenzhen), OKI Precision (Thailand),  OKI Electric Technology (Kunshan),  DongGuan TangXia OKI Micro Engineering Factory  Corporate Names / Names of Organizations  In this report, Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. is referred to as "OKI," and  its corporate group, including its subsidiaries and affiliates, as the "OKI  Group." The names of the organizations referred to in this report, in  principal, are those used as of April 2012. In addition to factual information about the past and current activities of the OKI  Group, this report also includes forecasts, plans and targets for the future. They reflect  assumptions and judgments based on information available at the time of writing. Thus,  readers are requested to understand that the future results of the company's activities  could be different from what is described in this report. Forecasts, Plans and Targets For further information, please contact CSR Division Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. e-mail: oki-csr@oki.com  8 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 Command Control Device Fire Command System  Fire Fighting Headquarters Wireless Line  Control Device Base Station  Wireless Device Vehicle monitoring  device Portable wireless  device In-vehicle wireless  device Digital wireless communications for firefighting and emergency use Advantages of Digitized Wireless Communication  Multiple, enhanced channels    (Frequency expansion by narrowing the bandwidth )  Protection of confidential information and privacy by    speech signal processing  Interconnection with other digital equipment  High-Performance Fire Command Center and Wireless Communication Systems for Firefighting and Emergency Use current analog wireless communication networks are planned to  be fully digitized by the end of May 2016. For this purpose, the  Fire and Disaster Management Agency conducted a series of  demonstration experiments of digitized wireless communication  systems at sites under six fire fighting headquarters in fiscal 2010.  OKI participated in two of these experiments at the Fire and  Disaster Management Bureau of Kobe City and the Fire Fighting  Headquarters of Gifu City, and helped verify radio properties, and  examine essential functions of  voice communication and  optional features of data  communication. The Fire  Fighting Headquarters of Gifu  City started the full-scale  operation of a digitized system  in June 2011 before the other  participating headquarters.   Since its inception, OKI has developed technologies  contributing to various social infrastructures, and provided  products and services based thereon. The company has also  contributed to the security and safety of people in the field of fire  and disaster management. More specifically, it offers fire and  disaster management wireless communication systems as well as  fire command center systems using its specialty technologies  about wireless communication and switchboards.    Wireless communication systems for firefighting and  emergency use enables communication between fire command  centers, emergency vehicles and operation troops. While fire and  rescue services have become increasingly sophisticated and the  need for more efficient use of radio waves has been asked for, the  Meeting Our CSR  Commitments Special Features1 Digital wireless communication systems  for firefighting and emergency use  (Fire Fighting Headquarters of Gifu City) Providing People with Safe and Secure Social Infrastructures  Providing Security and Safety in the Field of Fire and Disaster Management High-Performance Fire Command  Center System (Fire Fighting Headquarters of Uji City )  9 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012   The Great East Japan Earthquake has made us reaffirm the  importance of collecting and sharing information on fire fighting  and disaster management activities in widespread disasters.    In response to disconnected telephone networks and power  disruptions soon after the earthquake, the OKI Group immediately  began preparing for an assistance to afflicted areas through  offering wireless communication equipment. In fact, the company  stared receiving many requests to lend wireless communication  devices from different areas the day after the earthquake. Thanks  to the cooperation with its sales staff and dealers through out  Japan as well as swift responses from its production sites, OKI  was able to offer more than 140 portable and in-vehicle wireless  devices that were used as tools of communication in relief  activities.     In addition to professional disaster management services  under the control of fire fighting headquarters, numerous local  volunteer fire corps and disaster prevention organizations were  committed to relief activities after the earthquake. With the limited  performance of the current analog wireless communication  systems, however, these volunteers were not able to send  messages about what was going on site while they were able to  receive messages from fire authorities. It is expected that the  digitization of wireless communication will allow an increased  number of available channels, two-way communication with  volunteer fire corps. and closer cooperation with them in disaster  situations.   The urgent need for the digitization of fire and disaster  management wireless communication systems is emphasized also  in "A Report on Desirable Fire and Disaster Management Systems  for Future in Light of the Great East Japan Earthquake" compiled  and issued by the Fire and Disaster Management Council in  January 2012. OKI has established Digitized Fire and Disaster  Management Wireless Communication Promotion Office, and has  been making efforts to realize an effective shift to digitized  networks.    OKI's high-performance fire command center system helps  identify the locations of disasters in response to emergency calls,  promptly dispatch ambulances and fire engines, and support  on-site relief activities. OKI has offered the system since 1968.     Recent changes in social and natural environments have  made accidents and disasters more complex, diverse and greater  in size. The complexity and diversification of today's urban  structures and people's needs have also greatly changed the  environment surrounding disaster management. Under these  circumstances, disasters need to be dealt with prompt actions  using highly sophisticated systems. OKI's high-performance fire  command center system is based on our 40-year experience of  delivering firefighting-related systems, in-depth understanding of  disaster management tasks, and unique ICT.*   Today OKI's IT-integrated high-performance fire command  center system is used at about 150 fire fighting headquarters in  Japan including the Fire Fighting Headquarters of Uji City where  the system has been in service since March 2012. The system  includes a location information function to identify the locations of  disasters soon after emergency calls, and an automatic  mobilization ordering function and a vehicle operation control  function for the optimal organization and dispatch of emergency  services. As a result, the fire fighting headquarters initial  responses to disasters have become swifter and more efficient.    In order to be ready for future large earthquakes, such as a  major earthquake hitting the Tokyo metropolitan area and a Nankai  Trough earthquake, wide-area disaster management based on close  cooperation between neighboring municipalities is indispensable. In  this context, new command systems for wide-area fire and disaster  management services are currently being developed. OKI has set  up a special marketing team, and tried to develop more practical,  reliable systems fully catering to customer needs.   OKI will continue to contribute to the establishment of more  secure and safer social infrastructures through its efforts to  support regional disaster management in addition to the promotion  of the digitization of fire and disaster management wireless  communication. * ICT: Information Communication Technology   The digitization of our wireless communication system  has allowed wide-area coordination of our activities. Different  emergency vehicles in different locations are now able to  communicate with each other via the base station. The  advantages of the digitized system also include voice  communication with clear sound, and the improvement of  confidentiality by use of short messages. We appreciate  OKI's efforts to improve the user-friendliness of the wireless  communication system based on its in-depth understanding  of our activities. We hope OKI will further improve the system  in the future by making the portable wireless device smaller  and lighter, and allowing more flexible operations for different  areas with different regional characteristics such as urban  areas and mountain areas. OKI's continued contribution to  fire and disaster management will be greatly appreciated. Enabling Wide-area  Coordination of Fire and  Disaster Management  Activities Syozi Adachi Fire Chief, Gifu City Stakeholder's VOICE Importance of Telecommunication  in Disaster Situations Reconsidered  After the Great East Japan Earthquake High-Performance Fire Command  Center System Based on OKI's  Technology and Experience Supporting Wide-area Fire and Disaster  Management Services in Preparing for  Large-scale Disasters  10 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012   As the ongoing economic globalization and booming  economies in emerging countries have led to increased  greenhouse gas emissions and ecosystem deterioration, there is  growing concern over environmental issues. In order to address  environmental challenges, there have been a number of  movements to set long-term targets and plans inside and outside  Japan. For example, the Japan Business Federation (as known as  Nippon Keidanren) published "Nippon Keidanren's Commitment to  a Low Carbon Society" as a basic policy to address climate  change. The World Summit on Sustainable Development held in  Johannesburg set a target to minimize the impacts of chemical  substances on human health and environment. At the 10th  Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on  Biological Diversity (COP10) , a new strategic plan for biodiversity  called the Aichi Target was adopted. The latter two targets are  intended to be met by 2020. Furthermore, increasing concern  about the possible resource depletion in the future has also  become an important issue to be addressed on the global level.  Under these circumstances, it is very likely that the scope of  responsibilities for business operators will be widened in the  future.   The OKI Group has advanced environmental measures since  the 1970's. Today we are globally committed to environmental  protection through its products, services and business activities.   In order to address environmental issues more proactively, we  enacted the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 in April 2012.  The vision outlines the basic directions of the group's  environmental management and sets targets for 2020. 2 OKI Group  Environmental Vision  2020 The OKI Group achieves a better global  environment for the next generation and  inherits the environment. Therefore, we  promote the environmental management and  set targets for 2020 in four fields of "Realization  of a low-carbon society, "Prevention of  pollution," "Resource circulation" and  "Biodiversity conservation" and then actively  work on the targets. 1. Realization of a low-carbon society: Contribute to realize a low-carbon society  by the  maximization of energy efficiency, through the  provision of environmentally conscious products and  services, and business activities. 2. Prevention of pollution: Minimize the use of chemical substances and  emissions to the atmosphere and discharges to water  which affect on human health and environment. 3. Resource circulation: Minimize new input resources by the expansion of  recycling process of used products and production  wastes, and reduction of materials at the time of  production. 4. Biodiversity conservation: Establish a management system to work on the  biodiversity conservation and sustainable use. Meeting Our CSR  Commitments Special Features The OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020  for Future Generations Enactment of the OKI Group  Environmental Vision 2020  11 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 Healthcare Security/watch over Environment visualization Home control Smart house PC control (measure against reserve power flow) Power consumption visualization EV charge control  Smart house Optical access line Home gateway Large-scale field area  network with high reliability Energy-saving home area network Home ICT IP network   Global warming and climate change are two of the most  important global issues. As they have become increasingly  aggravated and conspicuous, there have been active discussions  about possible solutions to them on a global basis.   The mitigation of climate change and the realization of a low  carbon society are important agendas also for the OKI Group. As  a business group deeply involved in IT, we have actively promoted  Green IT* for pursuing environment-friendliness in our products  and services, and have made efforts to save energy in our  business activities for fulfilling our corporate responsibility. In order  to further promote such activities, we participated in the "Nippon  Keidanren's Commitment to a Low Carbon Society" in March 2012. Active Promotion of Green IT 	 In order to further facilitate "Green of IT," we expanded the  range of OKI Eco Products Certification in fiscal 2011 by reflecting  some global energy-saving regulations such as the Energy Star  Program in its registration standards.   In September 2011, OKI announced that it had succeeded in  the development of Japan's first wireless multi-hop communication  system*1 for the new 920MHz frequency band as an energy- saving effort by IT. Intended to be used in smart communities and  smart houses*2 , the system allows large-scale, reliable and  energy-saving networks in which thousands of wireless devices  can be connected to a single base station. The system also offers  highly flexible route controls ensuring high network connectivity  even in the event of base station faults and troubles in wireless  devices. In addition, the system's router with a relay function  enables battery-driven operation for several years, and thus  greatly helps save energy for the entire network.     The 920MHz frequency band, which is scheduled to open in  July 2012,  offers high signal propagation, and is considered to be  ideal for use in smart communities and houses. We will develop  various products and services for this frequency band and thus  contribute to the penetration of smart houses. * Green IT: Environmental efforts related to IT that are classified into two categories, "Green of IT" and "Green by IT." *1  Wireless multi-hop communication: Data transmission involving other wireless devices by a "bucket brigade"  process. It allows data transmission in environments without communication infrastructure elements such as base  stations *2  Smart houses: A type of houses for the next generation in which electricity consumption are monitored and  visualized using IT-driven distribution boards and smart taps. They help promote energy-saving efforts and  control the power consumption of home electrical appliances during peak hours. Communities using the same  system are called smart communities. 	 The Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011 has brought  about significant changes to us.  Since emerging energy  problems and policies toward them, in particular, have a  significant impact on business activities, firms are asked to  take appropriate measures. Believing that a long-term  perspective and forward-looking targets are necessary in  order to respond quickly to such significant trends, we  enacted the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020. This  vision focuses on four fields with mounting global concerns.  Each new growth strategy of the OKI Group is developed in  accordance with the vision. Among such strategies are  those about the realization of a low-carbon society by  promoting a "smart society" based on IT as OKI's  competitive advantage, and the prevention of hazardous  substance pollutions by conforming with all relevant global  regulations about environment conservation. We will help  protect rich natural environment for future generations by  enacting an annual plan to achieve the vision and  implementing thereof. Steady Contribution to Global Environment from a Long-term Perspective VOICE Realizing a Low Carbon Society Hisao Suzuki Executive Vice President  Examples of the application of 920MHz wireless multi-hop technology allowing effective energy saving for the entire networks  12 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012   Chemical substances bring people considerable convenience.  Some of them containing harmful substances, however,  need to  be controlled strictly and relevant regulations must be tightened  whenever necessary. In this context, regulations to control  chemical substances contained in products, such as EU's RoHS  directive and REACH regulation, have recently become  increasingly demanding. Similar regulations have been enacted in  other countries such as China and Korea.    The OKI Group makes utmost efforts to handle chemical  substances appropriately, uses alternate substances with less  impact on human health and environment, and try to reduce the  use of such substances for both products and business activities. Prompt Response to Regulations about  Chemical Substances in Products   Recognizing the importance of the appropriate management  of chemical substances in products from early on, the OKI Group  established the Product Assessment System in 1998. The group  was also a pioneer in the development and implementation of a  system to manage and calculate chemical substances in products  based on network technology, one of OKI's core technologies. The  group has always made prompt responses to the enactment and  the revision of relevant regulations. More specifically, it has  enhanced its systems to manage chemical substances by revising  the OKI Guidelines for Managing Chemical Substances in  Products and the OKI Green Procurement Standards.  Furthermore, the system to manage and calculate chemical  substances in products was developed later into a more  comprehensive system that ensures full conformity with  regulations relevant to Green Procurement. Called COINServ- COSMOS-R/R, this new system is enhanced whenever necessary,  and is currently sold to outsiders.    The number of chemical substances requiring strict  management is expected to increase in the years to come. In  order to further ensure conformity with relevant laws and  regulations in this context, we established a procedure to evaluate  the chemical substance management systems of suppliers, added  it to the OKI Green Procurement Standards, and started the  implementation thereof during fiscal 2011.  The procedure allows  the visualization of the strength and weakness of each supplier,  and thus helps improve the quality of its management system. Energy-saving Efforts in Business Activities   As proclaimed in the Environmental Vision 2020, the OKI  Group has been committed to energy-saving activities because it  believes the reduction of green house gases such as carbon  dioxide (CO2) emitted from its business activities is important for  realizing a low-carbon society.   In fiscal 2011, we made several energy-saving measures to  deal with power shortage during midsummer caused by the  accident at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station. They  included dispersing summer vacations, the reduction of the sizes  of spaces used, the suspensions of servers, and air-conditioning  controls. OKI Digital Imaging, a group company manufacturing  LED print heads, reconsidered the operating conditions of the  refrigerating equipment in its clean room for manufacturing  semiconductors and achieved a 12% reduction of power  consumption over the previous year even if clean rooms were  exempted from the national power-saving edict. The company also  reconsidered the operational procedure for externally-procured  steam and achieved a year-on-year 51% reduction in purchase  volume.   As a result of these efforts, the CO2 emission from the OKI  Group's major production sites during fiscal 2011 amounted to  40,600 tons, a 13% decrease over the previous year. It means that  we have substantially exceeded a goal set in the Voluntary Action  Plan on Measures to Fight Global Warming of the Japanese  electric and electronics industry, "improving the basic unit for CO2  emissions with respect to real output* in fiscal 2010 by 35% or  more compared to 1990," by making a 71.5% improvement. (A  final assessment is to be calculated as the average percentage  during the five years from fiscal 2008 to 2012.)    The realization of a low carbon society is an important issue to  be addressed in the long run. The OKI Group will continue to  address these issues through its products and services as well as  its business activities. The OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020  for Future Generations 2 0 20 40 60 100 80 100.0 Emission Volume Basic Unit 57.8 41.4 44.3 41.7 1990 2008 2007 2009 0 20 40 60 80 100 46.9 2010 40.6 2011 31.2 30.8 33.9 28.5 25.3 Emission Volume (1,000 tons)  Compared to Fiscal 1990 (%) CO2 Emission Basic Unit for Real Output (Base Year) Fiscal Year)  CO2 Emissions(from Major Production Sites of the OKI Group)  Check Sheet for Supplier's Management System of Chemical Substances in Products Items to be Evaluated in Supplier's  Management System of Chemical Substances Total Evaluation Result Acceptable Level 0 20 40 60 80 100 Environmental Management System Design  and Devel- opment Procurement  Management Receiving  Inspection Process Control Shipping Inspection and Traceability Change Management and Response to Non-conformity External Communication Visualization of Supplier's Strength and Weakness Category Evaluation Item Number of Items Evaluated Environmental  Management  and Control Policy and Planning 6 Education and Training 1 Document and Record  Management 2 Performance and Management  Review 4 Processes Design and Development 1 Procurement Management 7 Receiving Inspection 2 Process Control 8 Shipping Inspection and  Traceability 3 Information  Management Change Management and  Response to Non-conformity 5 External Communication 3 Total 42 Prevention of Pollution *  Basic unit for CO2 emission with respect to real output: CO2 emission / real output (real output = nominal output /  Bank of Japan's Domestic Corporate Goods Price Index for electrical machinery and equipment with fiscal 1990 as  the base year) Special Features  13 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012   During fiscal 2011, OKI formed a partnership with FUJISOFT  INCORPORATED about the integration of FSGreen Chemical  Report, FUJISOFT's system to help examine information on  chemical substances, into COSMOS-R/R. The integration has  allowed users of COSMOS-R/R to ask a group of suppliers to  survey chemical substances in their products and components at  one time. Before then, the system users had to ask each supplier  to make a survey. The upgraded system also supports the  management of survey status. In other words, COSMOS-R/R now  offers a one-stop service that covers information gathering, data  management, calculation and reporting to customers, and thus  greatly improves the efficiency of each survey task. Management and Reduction of Chemical Substances in  Business Activities   While chemical substances used in the OKI Group's  production sites are managed appropriately in accordance with  the levels of environmental impact, the group has made efforts to  reduce the use of chemical substances as well as their emissions.   During fiscal 2011, the volume of emitted chemical  substances was 9.6 tons, a 41% decrease over the previous year,  thanks to the redesigning of the treatment process for substrates.   The OKI Group will continue to ensure the appropriate  management of chemical substances in products in order to  minimize their impact, and reduce the emissions thereof into the  atmosphere and waters.   As resource consumption has continued to increase due to  population increase and economic growth, resource depletion has  become a significant problem.    In order to help build a resource circulation society, the OKI  Group has promoted resource saving and recycling in its business  activities. As part of its consideration to create environmentally- friendly products, the group has also tried to recycle as many  used products as possible, utilizing the Cross-jurisdictional Waste  Treatment Manufacturer Scheme.   We have also been active in saving resources for our  products. During fiscal 2011, OKI Digital Imaging developed a  new LED printhead using a smaller number of components (a 25%  decrease compared to its predecessors). One of the most  important requirements for a printhead is a function to prevent LED  light from being out of focus by securing the levelness of the  substrate on which LED chips are mountedwith a high degree of  accuracy. For the predecessors of the new printhead, such  levelness is secured by combining several adjustment  components. The structural design of the new printhead does not  require such components. The printhead is planned to be mass- produced for different products during fiscal 2012.   There has been a growing interest in biodiversity. OKI has  already made various efforts for biodiversity. For example, OKI  became a member of the "Declaration of Biodiversity by Nippon  Keidanren" Promotion Partners, and also participated in the Japan  Business and Biodiversity Partnership during fiscal 2010. OKI has  also supported the Japan School Biotope Contest organized by  the Ecosystem Conservation Society-Japan since fiscal 2001. For  the 2011 contest, we helped broadcast a video of the event on its  website, and offered a download service for posters produced by  participating schools.   We will further promote our commitment to biodiversity  conservation by continuing existing environmental activities such  as forest improvement programs. We also plan to include "efforts  for biodiversity" as an item to be checked in the OKI Green  Procurement Standards.  How to collect information on chemical substances in products Supplier Customer File Supplier Customer File Supplier Customer File COINServ-COSMOS-R/R FSGreen ChemicalReport Requests for Responses Registration of Responses Progress Management Error Checking Return Confirmation of Responses JAMP IT (GP/AS) Internet Mail Customer Response Report Function Calculation/ Evaluation Function Database of Definitions Laws and Regulations, etc. Database of Configuration Information Database of Chemical Substances in In-house Processed Products Survey Progress and Management Information Material Master Survey/Collection Function Database of Chemical Substances in Purchased Components Information to be Managed Main Functions  Use and Emission of PRTR Chemical Substances     Until last fiscal year, our calculation covered only the substances used in large amounts. Under the revised PRTR  system, we have widened the scope of substances to be calculated. The data was revised to reflect this change.  Amount Used 2008 2007 2009 2010 2011 Amount Emitted 40.7 17.5 41.5 18.2 46.9 15.6 109.1 16.2 93.1 9.6 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 Amount Used (tons) Fiscal Year) Resource Circulation Biodiversity Conservation  3 14 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 enhance CSR-related management, we have developed an  assessment format reflecting the requirements for global CSR  procurement, and disseminated it to our production sites.   As contribution to the countries and regions in which we  operate is one of our most important agendas, the OKI Group's  global business management has focused not only on the pursuit  of economic advantages, but also on efforts for promoting trust  with local communities from the outset.    As we have worked closely with local employees and vendors  for the improvement of production technologies, local employees  have begun taking initiatives in improving productivity. We have  also been active in providing local employees with IT education  and language education while encouraging them to obtain various  certifications because we believe human resource cultivation also  is part of our social responsibilities.    In addition to these efforts through our business activities, we  have also been active in interacting with local residents and  participating in various social action programs inside and outside  Japan. As a result of such highly-regarded community-based  activities, a Chinese subsidiary of the Group recently won a local  CSR award.    In fiscal 2011, OKI and its nine subsidiaries in China  supported a project to build a dining hall at Yuezhuang  Elementary School in Shaanxi Province. OKI decided to support  the project in order to express its appreciation for its business  expansion in China along with the country's growth as part of its  130th anniversary celebrations.   As the world's economy becomes more integrated, what is  required of companies is more diverse as ever. They are now  asked to pursue not only their own growth but also contribution to  sustainable development of the countries and regions in which  they operate.    The OKI Group currently has production sites in Japan,  Thailand, China and Great Britain. Our activities there focus on the  further improvement of our sophisticated production technologies,  the dissemination of our sophisticated production management  across the group, the reduction of environmental impacts arising  from manufacturing activities, and the appropriate management of  occupational health and safety for employees. We address these  managerial issues in accordance with the OKI Group Charter of  Corporate Conduct.    As the group's all production sites are ISO9001-certified, our  quality control efforts are managed based on the certification with  Quality Management Department at each business unit or group  company. Each production site has established its own quality  control systems in accordance with their production lines and the  characteristics of their products. In fiscal 2011, we established  Production & Product Safety Division at the head office that is  responsible for the optimal utilization of production resources, the  coordination of production tasks and other group-wide efforts.    Regarding environmental conservation, 39 sites of the OKI  group, mostly production sites, have obtained ISO14001  Integrated Certification. We have set a group-wide management  system with business themes (focusing on reducing environmental  burdens through products and services) and site themes  (focusing on reducing environmental burdens at each site).  Occupational health is being managed at each production site by  its Safety and Health Committee comprised of members from both  management and employees.    As the promotion of CSR throughout the supply chain has  become an important issue, an increasing number of our  customers have expected us to make these efforts. In order to  Establishing Management Systems  Required for Production Sites Growing with the Countries and  Regions in Which We Operate Supporting a Project to Build a Dining  Hall at an Elementary School in China Meeting Our CSR  Commitments Special Features Contributing to the Sustainable  Development of the Countries and  Regions in Which We Operate      Opening ceremony for the dining hall  at Yuezhuang Elementary School (Photos provided by Plan Japan)  15 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012   Corporate responsibilities for constant supply of products  have drawn more attention in the wake of the Great East Japan  Earthquake on March 11 of 2011 and Thailand floods in October  of the same year.   The Great East Japan Earthquake forced OKI Data to partly  cut off production at its Fukushima site. As a result of immediate  recovery efforts by employees, the site was able to resume  full production on April 11. This incident made us rethink the  importance of our responsibilities for constant supply of our  products. But it was not long before, however, serious floods  hit Thailand in October. OKI Data Manufacturing (Thailand)  (hereafter called ODMT) was forced to close up operation  for about three months from October 6 since floodwater had  inundated its production facilities.   In response to this  disaster, OKI Data, the group  company overseeing all  printer-related operations,  immediately set up a task  force in Japan. The company  then networked all relevant  sites inside and out side Japan  via a video teleconference  system, checked on what was  happening in Thailand, gave  prompt instructions, drew up a  plan for alternate production,  and started putting the plan  into practice on October 10. In order to effectively implement the  plan, the company got the cooperation of its business partners,  opened new lines for alternate production at other sites, and  secured materials and equipment for them.  At the same time,  many Thai skilled workers from ODMT were dispatched to such  alternate production sites. Each employee involved in this plan  worked very hard to produce and supply products under the  slogan "Customers across the world are waiting for our products!   It's time to show our real strength." Meanwhile, ODMT started  making arrangements for the withdrawal of damaged equipment  and the installation of new  equipment soon after the  flooding. Furthermore, once  the floodwater receded,  all employees at ODMT  worked hard cleaning the  site and preparing for the  resumption of production.  Thanks to all these efforts,  ODMT resumed production  partly on January 4, 2012. It  resumed full production on  March 1 ahead of schedule.    In its recovery efforts, ODMT strengthen measures against  flooding, and redesigned the layout of production lines for more  prompt recovery from future flooding. The OKI Group will further  promote its BCP by enhancing its global backup system. Recovered production line at ODMT   Among 268 children attending this old school established in  1922 for neighboring 7 villages, 213 live in  a dormitory. Before the  project, children had to have simple meals in a makeshift tented  dining room because the dormitory had no regular dining or  washroom facilities.   Carried out through Plan Japan* as one of its Donor-tied  projects, this project focused on providing children with a safe and  sanitary dining environment by building a dining hall, a kitchen  and a washroom. It also included a training program about  nourishment and health. Since local stakeholders including  children and teachers were involved in all stages of the project  from planning to progress management, they were able to  establish a system to maintain "their dining hall" by themselves. We  believe that nutritious meals prepared in a sanitary environment  help improve children's health and learning effect. We also hope  that they will grow up to be respectable members of local  communities and the nation.   The OKI Group will continue to contribute to local communities  in various ways, and grow with people there. *  Plan Japan: a member of Plan International, a non-profit, non-governmental organization recognized by the United  Nations   Thanks to the new canteen, our dining problem has been  solved. Now dining in this bright and spacious canteen, we  dont have to put up with the cold winter and the hot summer.  There is a disinfection cabinet in the new canteen which  enables us to eat safe food. Xi, a fifth grade student   As the student canteen is built, accommodation condition  for our children has improved. Now our kids are able to grow  healthily and happily in such good condition, we can do farm  work or go outside to work reassuringly. Ma Hongdeng, a parent Comments from Stakeholders at  Yuezhuang Elementary School Stakeholder's Old dining room (left) and inside the new dining hall VOICE Removing equipment from ODMT for  alternative production Fulfilling Our Responsibility  Even in Disasters Special Report  16 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012   Today the use of information technology (IT) is indispensable  for any company. On the other hand, advanced IT and the  increasing popularization of the Internet have created a series of  new threats such as computer viruses and cyberterrorism. The  OKI Group, as a leader in the information society, has been long  committed to information security, and offered its customers  various security products and services.    The advent and popularization of smartphones, cloud  computing and social media	are greatly changing business  activities. However, many companies are leery of adopting them  for fear of complex processes for proper management and  security risks such as information leakage.   Understanding these circumstances, OKI launched EXaaS  Mobile Desk, a cloud computing services for smartphones in  January 2012. This service allows employees to view in-house  corporate data on a cloud server using smartphones from  locations outside the company in an easy and prompt way. It also  enables the easy development and introduction of applications  that allow us to use smartphones as terminals without changing  our existing business systems. In order to avoid security risks,  data to be viewed is not actually located on smartphones. The  service also features a "VPN* connection function" for secure  authenticated/encrypted communications and a "terminal control  function" to ensure the prevention of unauthorized use and the  protection of lost terminals.   In addition to providing customers with information security  services, the OKI Group has made various efforts to enhance its  own information security.   We have implemented our security measures from three  perspectives shown in the following diagram since the enactment  of the OKI Group Security Policy in fiscal 2002. Furthermore, each  business unit of the group has designed its measures to promote  information security under the supervision of the Information  Security Committee established in fiscal 2007. The secretariat of  the committee conducts on-site monitoring to check how such  measures are being implemented.  We have also obtained the  ISMS* certification (See Page 21).   The measures implemented in fiscal 2011, in order to respond  to increasingly sophisticated recent cyber	attacks, included the  blocking of paths for information leaked from virus-infected PCs or  servers, in addition to the existing security patches and antivirus  software. We also introduced a tool to prevent wrong  transmissions. This was due to a	survey by an outside  organization showing that 20% of information leakage is caused  by erroneous operations of e-mail and other applications.   We constantly provide education programs reflecting the  latest trends of information security. We also conduct an  information security general checkup of all employees including  temporary staff every October. In fiscal 2011, we reexamined the  items to be checked, emphasized the importance of protecting  information from customers and trade secrets, and thus promoted  security awareness. We will continue to improve our information  security system as a leader of information society. Providing Information Security  Responding to Advanced IT The OKI Group's Efforts for Information Security Systems for Visibility  (monitoring and so on)  Systems for Support  (the introduction of IT) Systems for Protection  (rules, education and so on) Management of confidential data  using a shared server Development of IT infrastructure Clarification and definition of data  and business processes Implementation of information  security education Monitoring at the  security center Protection from  computer viruses Automatic updating of  virus pattern files OKI Group Security Policy  (IT governance)   Information Security System Based on Three Perspectives * ISMS: Information Security Management System Smartphone Mobile Desk Office  ExaaS Mobile Desk Service * VPN: a virtual network built on a public line network such as the Internet. Providing Customers  with Sophisticated and  Secure Information  Security 4 Meeting Our CSR  Commitments Special Features  17 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 General Meeting of Shareholders Accounting Auditors   President Executive Officer Committee Compensation Committee CSR Committee   Compliance Committee Information Security Committee Disclosure Committee Corporate Marketing & Sales Section Business Section Subsidiaries and Affiliates   Audit Collaboration Audit Supervision Board of Directors including Outside Director Board of Company Auditors including Outside Company Auditors Selection / Dismissal / Supervision Selection / Dismissal / Supervision Selection / Dismissal / Supervision Collaboration Audit Audit Internal Auditing Division   Corporate Governance Structure Corporate Governance The OKI Group regards ongoing improvements in corporate value as its most important  management priority in its quest to earn the trust of stakeholders. To this end, we are working to  reinforce corporate governance based on our fundamental policies, including the enhancement  of management fairness and transparency and the acceleration of decision-making  processes.  Corporate Governance Structure   OKI maintains a corporate auditor system, with a Board of  Directors and a Board of Company Auditors. To enhance  management efficiency, it has also introduced an executive  officer system, with the aim of separating the roles of the Board  of Directors and Company Auditors/Board of Company  Auditors (supervision and auditing of business execution) and  executive officers (business execution).   The Board of Directors makes decisions on fundamental  management policies and other important issues, and also  supervises the execution of business. Company auditors audit  the business execution functions of directors based on audit  policies and methods decided at Board of Company Auditors  meetings through attendance to Board of Directors meetings  and other important meetings. Company auditors also liaise  closely with the accounting auditors and the Internal Auditing  Division to accurately ascertain the overall status of company  operations as well as to carry out audits of business  executions. The Board of Directors and Board of Company  Auditors include three independent director/company auditors  who have no conflict of interest with general shareholders.   The Executive Officer Committee makes decisions related  to the execution of Group operations. Through participation by  all executive officers, the Committee seeks to accelerate  decision-making and business advancement and clarify  business responsibilities.  Committee Organizations   As part of its efforts to reinforce corporate governance,  OKI established the Compensation Committee, whose  members include an outside director. The Committee is  responsible for ensuring transparency in the criteria and  mechanisms used to set executive remuneration. We have also  set up the CSR Committee to deliberate basic policies related  to our CSR activities, as well as several dedicated committees;  the Compliance Committee to deliberate fundamental  compliance-related policies; and the Information Security  Committee to ensure the thorough implementation of  information security measures. In addition, OKI has set up the  Disclosure Committee to ensure that disclosure to stakeholders  is accurate and timely.  Internal Control   In accordance with Japans Companies Act and the  Ordinance for Enforcement of the Companies Act, the Board of  Directors in May 2006 passed a resolution concerning the  Basic Policy for the Establishment of an Internal Control  System. In May 2010, the Board of Directors made a partial  modification to the Basic Policy. Conforming to the Basic  Policy, OKI has been developing a system to secure  appropriate business operations. Pursuant to the Financial  Instruments and Exchange Act, we also have an internal  control reporting system in place, through which we submit  internal control reports to the Kanto regional bureau of the  Ministry of Finance and disclose the assessment results of the  effectiveness of internal controls related to financial reporting.  18 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 Full Compliance with Laws and  Regulations  Expansion of risk management as a group   Improvement of efficiency in risk management and  the enhancement of monitoring Information Security  Review of the items to be checked in-house  Continuation of the "visualization" of how the  information security measures have been entrenched  in suppliers Improvement of  Customer  Satisfaction  Improvement of educational programs for mid-level  engineers   Expansion of the application range of universal  design technique Good Communication with Shareholders and Investors  Fair and timely disclosure of the achievements made  in the first year for the revised mid-term business  plan Respect for Employees  Recruitment and training of diverse human resources   Entrenchment of the supports for the development of  the next generation   Promotion of work-life balance   Promotion of the mental and physical health of  employees Social Contribution  Creation of new activities that provide reconstruction  assistance to those affected by the Great East Japan  Earthquake   Enhancement of social contribution activities inside  and outside Japan Consideration for the  Environment  Improvement of the OKI Group's basic unit for CO2  emissions and the achievement of the industry's new  targets   Addition of some new facilities to those applicable  to the management standards in response to the  Revised Energy Saving Act, and the review of the  standards  Response to the revision of laws and regulations  about power saving products.  Improvement of efficiency in surveys of information  on chemical substances in products  Implementation of surveys of suppliers' CMS systems p.20 p.21 p.22 p.23 p.24 p.25 p.26  Revision of the OKI Group Code of Conduct   Improvement of the compliance systems of  overseas group companies  Review of the risk management cycle  Publication of a booklet called "Case Examples of  Compliance"  Reexamination of the items to be checked in the  information security general checkup  Continuation of the self-check system to confirm  the entrenchment of compliance measures  Establishment of Production & Product Safety  Division     Improvement of education programs focusing on  practical business processes  Establishment of a new business unit to promote  human interfaces  Holding of results briefings and IR meetings  Redesigning of the IR website for more  accessibility  Promotion of the employment of challenged  people not only in Japan but also at overseas sites  Establishment of a teleworking system  Promotion of the efficient management of working  hours  Continuation of the existing measures to promote  mental and physical health  Promotion of social action programs including  those focusing on recovery from the Great East  Japan Earthquake  Assistance to a project to build a dining hall at an  elementary school in China  Achievement of the OKI Group's target for  improving the basic unit for CO2 emissions   Participation in the Nippon Keidanren's  Commitment to a Low Carbon Society, a new  initiative of the business circle  Replacement of old air conditioning systems and  other equipment with energy-saving  systems  Review of energy management standards in response  to the national power-saving edict for summer  Revision of in-house regulations to comply with  the International ENERGY STAR Program and  other global standards  Addition of a new web research function to  COSMOS-R/R, and the enhancement of the system's  function to refer relevant laws and regulations  Holding of briefing sessions about the CMS  assessment standards at group companies inside  and outside Japan, and the commencement of  their operation Promoting CSR at the OKI Group In order to fulfill CSR based on the corporate philosophy, we cohesively promote our CSR initiatives,  in accordance with the basic policies determined by the CSR Committee, through the cooperation  between the CSR Division and other relevant business units under the seven priority themes. CSR Priority Themes:  Focal Points and Achievements  Achievements in Fiscal 2011 Focal Points for Fiscal 2011 CSR Priority Themes  19 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 Information Provided on the Website  Effective follow-up for risk management activities at group companies  Enhancement of measures to disseminate the contents of education  programs  Safe use of smartphones  Continuation and improvement of the checking systems for the group  companies and business partners  Improvement of educational programs for mid-level engineers as a group  Expansion of the application range of universal design technique  Fair and timely disclosure of how the revised mid-term business plan is being  implemented for the group's further growth  Recruitment and training of diverse human resources   Continuing entrenchment of the supports for the development of the next  generation   Continuing promotion of work-life balance   Continuing promotion of the mental and physical health of employees  Continuation of the activities that provide reconstruction assistance to those  affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake  Continuing promotion of social contribution activities inside and outside  Japan Promotion of efforts to achieve the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020: [Realization of a low-carbon society] - Improvement of the OKI Group's basic unit for CO2 emissions - Preparatory efforts for the Nippon Keidanren's Commitment to a Low  Carbon Society [Prevention of pollution] - Improvement of operational procedures and IT systems in compliance with  the relevant laws and regulations as well as the industry standards [Resource circulation] - Examination of targets for reducing materials newly input at production sites [Biodiversity conservation] - Formulation of a clear policy - Construction of a management framework - Implementation of educational programs Establishment of compliance systems Risk management promotion systems Fair business and purchasing practices OKI Group Procurement Policies Efforts for security export control Strengthening of information security Regulations and rules related to information security Information security education System for protecting personal information Quality assurance system and management Cooperation within the group against product safety risks OKI Group's approach to universal design OKI Group's investor relations activities Strict prevention of insider trading Information for shareholders and investors (IR website) Basic policy on human rights and resources Holding internship events Career design support initiatives (results of training programs) 	Maternity, childcare and nursing care programs, and time adjustments Special-purpose leave 	Initiatives for occupational health and safety (lost worktime accident  rates) Basic philosophy and systems for social contribution activities The OKI 100 Yen Fund of Love achievements in fiscal 2011 Participatory social action programs  Activities contributing to local communities in Japan and overseas OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 OKI Group Environmental Policy OKI Group Environmental Management Scope of ISO14001 Consolidated Certification OKI Group Environmental Accounting OKI Eco Products Operation of the Chemical Substances Management Systems Recycling of Used Products Controlling and Reducing Chemical Substances   In order to disseminate the OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct and the OKI Group Code of Conductas the basis of our CSR  activities throughout the group, we published a booklet featuring the full text of the charter and code with explanatory notes in four  languages (Japanese, English, Chinese and Thai). Copies of the booklet were distributed to all applicable employees. In fiscal 2011, we  revised the OKI Group Code of Conduct in order to further promote corruption prevention and the elimination of antisocial groups. The  revised code has been adopted also by group companies inside and outside Japan.   We will continue to reflect on our social responsibilities to be fulfilled through our global business activitiespursuant to the 10  principles of the United Nations Global Compact (in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption) and ISO 26000 (an  international standard about social responsibility) while reexamining our CSR activities in terms of what our stakeholders expect from us,  and further contribute to people and society through our core business. Focal Points for Fiscal 2012  20 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 O K I   G R O U P Full Compliance with Laws and Regulations Achievements in Fiscal 2011 Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct			Fair Corporate Activities   The OKI Group has worked to strengthen compliance in  order to comply with all related laws and regulations and  implement sound corporate activities consistent with social  norms. Under the leadership of the Compliance Committee  headed by the Chief Compliance Officer, we focus on the  enhancement of training and the promotion of integrated,  systematic, companywide risk management. Furthermore,  we have established consultation and reporting channels  as well as whistle-blowing regulations such as those about  the protection of whistle-blowers, thus tried to discover and  rectify improper activities at an early stage if any.  Revision of the OKI Group Code of Conduct   At the meeting of OKI's Board of Directors on December  28 of 2011, a revision of the OKI Group Code of Conduct was  resolved. The purpose of the revision was to present a clear- cut stance on corruption prevention (for which relevant laws  have been reinforced on a global level) and the elimination of  antisocial groups as the OKI Group.  Enhancement of Compliance Education   In order to disseminate  compliance-related measures across  the group, the OKI Group gives  training sessions for Compliance  Managers at six sites in Japan.  Participants in these sessions roll out  the knowledge learned in their  business units. The dissemination of  such knowledge is checked through  an e-learning program for all executive  officers and employees of the group.   In October 2011, we published  a booklet called "Case Examples of  Compliance" that features possible compliance problems and  actions to be taken in a Q&A style. Copies of the booklet have  been distributed to all Compliance Managers. We have also  encouraged participants in various training programs to  effectively use the booklet by distributing copies thereof.   Improvement of Measures to Deal with Compliance Risks   OKI has steadily promoted risk management based on its  Risk Management Regulations and established a system to  deal with any risk. As OKI regards compliance risks* as the  most important category thereof, each business unit of the  company needs to register potential risks related to its  operations with the Risk Management Promotion Office. We  have also established a management cycle to develop  measures against them and monitor the implementation thereof  within the group on a regular basis.    In fiscal 2011, we extended this cycle from 6 months to  one year for the purpose of improving managerial efficiency  and the effectiveness of measures taken. In order to prevent  this extended cycle from becoming a mere routine, we  reinforced communication between applicable group  companies, and adopted a more effective way for monitoring.  Furthermore, we continued to reinforce risk management at  overseas sites, and established a basic framework for  promoting compliance at almost all sites.  Emergency / Disaster Response   The OKI Group has established Safety Countermeasures  Committees and emergency communication networks at its  domestic and overseas sites as well as its group companies. In  the event of a disaster, appropriate countermeasures are  enacted to protect people's lives, prevent secondary accidents,  contribute to local communities and foster good relationships  with them, and ensure the continuity of business operations. As  for the continuity of business operations, we set guidelines for  formulating a BCP (Business Continuity Plan) in fiscal 2008.   In fiscal 2011, we redesigned the BCP for each business  segment based on lessons and reflections from our responses  to the Great East Japan Earthquake, planned blackouts, and  nation-wide campaigns for saving energy. When floods hit the  production site in Thailand in October, its employees worked  hard to recover from the damage through close  communication with related group companies, and  strengthened measures against flooding (See Page 15). We  will continue to make our utmost efforts to appropriately deal  with any disasters such as an earthquake.  Training sessions for Compliance Managers 100% e-learning program (about on-the-job compliance) 98% Major Changes in the Revised Code Participation rates in compliance education programs  (for the OKI Group in Japan) in fiscal 2011 II. Fair Corporate Activities   We will not give, offer or accept bribes, whether in cash  or otherwise, to or from any third party, including but not  restricted to government officials, customers or their  representatives.   In case of donations and political contributions, we will  first consider the necessity and appropriateness  carefully, and then we will make only appropriate  donations and political contributions in accordance with  applicable laws and regulations and company rules.   We will resolutely confront antisocial groups and  criminal organizations that pose a threat to the order  and security of civil society and all contact with such  entities is strictly forbidden. Case Examples of Compliance * A compliance risk : a risk associated with violation of laws, regulations and in-house rules  21 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 O K I   G R O U P Information Security Achievements in Fiscal 2011 Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct			Intellectual Property and Information Management   The OKI Group, based on the OKI Group Security Policy,  has established a system to ensure information security  under the leadership of the Information Security Committee.  We properly manage and protect company and customer  information, including personal information, through  various activities such as twice-a-year reviews of efforts for  information security and information security audits.   "Visualization" of How the Information  Security Measures Have Been Entrenched in  Partners and Suppliers   In order to improve the quality of information security  throughout the supply chain, OKI has checked the information  security measures of its business partners and suppliers  handling important confidential information. More specifically,  we have asked such companies to self-check their information  security measures using a check list designed by us,  evaluated the results of their self-checks using our own scoring  system, and shared the challenges found in this process with  them since fiscal 2008.   In fiscal 2011, the number of business partners "highly  evaluated" according to our criteria increased by 9 points from  the previous fiscal year. They made a visible progress particularly  in technological measures such as password updates and  security consciousness about the management of confidential  information. These results show that security measures have  been steadily entrenched in our business partners.   OKI-CSIRT for Prompt Response to  Security Accidents   In order to enhance our preventive measures against threats  to computer security and improve our capacity to respond to  them, we established OKI-CSIRT*1 as an organization  specializing in responding to security accidents in September  2008. OKI-CSIRT publishes a report on computer viruses every  month and offers technical assistance within the OKI Group. It  also contributes to prompt information sharing and problem  solving through participation in the Nippon CSIRT Association  (NCA) and cooperation with other outside organizations.   In fiscal 2011, OKI-CSIRT reinforced its partnerships with  NCA, CSIRT of other corporations, and relevant governmental  agencies about measures against cyber attacks. More  specifically, it obtained information on targeted emails*2,  blocked them, and shut down information leakage routes.   Disseminating Information Security  Measures to Business Sites in China   The OKI Group has started to disseminate its information  security measures to business sites in China since fiscal 2008.  As the IT environment in China is different from that in Japan,  we have adopted an antivirus software program designated  computer viruses detected in China. We have also improved  the local help desk function, enhanced support for damages  caused by computer viruses, and thus improved the virus  elimination rate there.   In fiscal 2011, we further promoted the project for mobile  PCs launched in fiscal 2010. We encrypted the hard drives of  mobile PCs in order to prevent information leakage in case of  theft or loss, and made the users of the approved mobile PCs  put the certificate sticker as we did in Japan.   Promotion of Acquiring ISMS Certification   The OKI Group is working to acquire the ISMS* certification  for divisions involved in building and operating internal  information systems and for divisions engaged in general  system design development, in order to improve the reliability  of network solution construction and related services. Five  companies and seven business units of the OKI Group are  ISMS-certified organizations as of June 2012.   Enhancing the Protection of Personal  Information   The OKI Group has enhanced the protection of personal  information based on the Privacy Policy  enacted in 2004. We have committed to the  protection of personal information under the  leadership of Chief Privacy Officer. Privacy  managers have been appointed at the  corporate level, and in business units and  group companies. The OKI Group has also promoted its  member companies' acquisition of the PrivacyMark  certification so that they can take appropriate measures to  protect personal information. Ten companies of the OKI Group  have acquired the PrivacyMark certification as of June 2012. Companies that have acquired the PrivacyMark Certification (as of June 2012) Name of Business Unit / Group Company Initial Registration Date Japan Business Operations Co., Ltd. (Operations Div.-1,  Operation Management Dept.  of Operations Dev.-2, Inspection and Training Div.) January 30, 2004 Oki Consulting Solutions Co., Ltd. September 20, 2006 OKI Software Co., Ltd. December 21, 2007 Oki Customer Adtech Co., Ltd. January 31, 2004 Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. (OKI System Center) August 4, 2003 Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. (Government & Public Systems Marketing & Sales Div., Enterprise Systems  Marketing & Sales Div., Information Systems Div. and  Public Systems Business Div. at Shibaura site) December 27, 2004 Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. (Information Planning Div.) February 14, 2003 Business Units / Group Companies That Have Acquired the ISMS  Certification (as of June, 2012) Japan Business Operations Co., Ltd. Oki Communication Systems Co., Ltd. Oki Customer Adtech Co., Ltd. OKI Software Co., Ltd. OKI Proserve Co., Ltd. OKI Networks Co., Ltd. Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. Oki Data Corporation Oki Wintech Co., Ltd. Payment First Corporation *1 CSIRT: Computer Security Incident Response Team  *2  Targeted email: an email sent to a specific organization or individual as a cyber attack  to steal information * ISMS : Information Security Management System  22 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 O K I   G R O U P Improvement of Customer Satisfaction Achievements in Fiscal 2011 Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct			Customer Satisfaction   Believing that quality entails "customer satisfaction,"  OKI's quality philosophy focuses on "providing products  that always make customers happy."  OKI's Quality  Assurance Regulations define the company's quality  philosophy, responsibility and authority. There are also  administrative instructions for the entire company and  each business division. These philosophy, rules and  regulations are incorporated into the quality management  system of each business division. Furthermore, we have  obtained ISO9001 certification at all our production sites,  and have built the most appropriate quality control system  for each production line or product.  Establishment of Production &  Product Safety Division   OKI established Production & Product Safety Division as a  corporate level business unit on October 1, 2011. The division  is responsible for two functions to oversee production and  product safety. The first function focuses on the optimum  utilization of production resources across the OKI Group and  the coordination of different tasks while the other ensures  product safety in compliance with Consumer Safety Act,  Product Liability Act and other laws.   In fulfilling the  first function, the  division held the "1st  OKI Group  Workshop on  Production Reform  and Improvement" in  November where  representatives from  production sites inside and outside Japan gave presentations  on their efforts. The purpose of the workshop was to improve  organizational power in manufacturing that affects the quality  of each product. As for the function to oversee product safety,  the existing Company-wide Product Safety Policy was  reexamined, and revised into the Product Safety Basic Policy  stipulating specific activities to be carried out. Under this new  policy, the division will compile all rules to cope with product  accidents and function as a portal for the entire group.  Improvement of Quality Education   OKI has given  education programs  on quality for different  types of employees  at different levels  such as new recruits,  novice members of  functional  departments, and  mid-level engineers. We have also offered various elective  education programs from among which each employee can  choose the most appropriate program for his or her need.   Since "usefulness on a practical level" is especially  important in our curriculum, we have started offering a new  course on "design of experiments (orthogonal experiments)" as  a program common to all mid-level engineers across the  company since fiscal 2010. This uniquely practical course  features lectures focusing on the past applications at OKI, and  seminars using an original data analysis support tool that  enables students to concentrate on the process of each  experiment without being bothered with calculation. We also  follow the practical effect of the course and continue to  improve its quality. In fiscal 2011, we added experimental  simulations on PCs to our curriculum with the intention of  facilitating practical utilization thereof.  Constant CS Surveys on Our  Products and Activities   OKI has constantly conducted CS surveys of customers in  the financial industry about the OKI Group's business activities  in different categories such as sales, proposal, development  and maintenance since fiscal 2007. The results of such  surveys are disclosed and explained to respondents  individually. Any advice given by customers in this process is  also fed back to OKI. The relevant business units then adopt  such advice, reexamine the activities poorly evaluated by  customers, decide a policy to deal with the problems, and  share them with other units within the group if necessary.   Our CS survey in fiscal 2011 included a new questionnaire  item about our services products such as an ATM operational  support. Approximately 70 customers answered our  questionnaires in 6 aspects on a zero-to-five scale. The  respondents also made free comments.  Establishment of Human Interface Design Department   OKI Data, a  leading  manufacturer of  business-use  printers and multi- functional printers,  established Human  Interface Design  Department in April  2012. While the  functions of its   products have  become increasingly complex, small businesses and  individuals now constitute a significant part of their users.  Consequently, the company is now asked to realize greater  user-friendliness that allows people with little knowledge of IT  to make full use of its products, and produce a truly easy-to- A seminar on quality A presentation at the Workshop on Production Reform and  Improvement Operability verification of printers  23 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct			Good Communication   The OKI Group appropriately discloses useful information  to shareholders and investors in a timely manner, including  corporate information, management strategies and operating  results. The purposes of our IR activities are to improve  management transparency, help build trust with our  shareholders, and thus improve our corporate value. The  department responsible for these activities is IR Unit. The  group also makes every effort to prevent insider trading in  order to protect shareholders and investors, and help ensure  the integrity of securities markets.  Corporate Strategy Meeting  Focusing on Mid-term Business Plan   OKI recognizes that the  appropriate utilization of the  views of the market in  management practices and  business activities serves to  further increase operating  efficiency and raise corporate  value. Based on this  recognition, President and the other members of the  management team conduct investor briefings, hold IR meetings  and engage in various other communication activities. As part  of such efforts, President explained how the company had  worked for its mid-term business plan to fiscal 2013 as well as  its policies for fiscal 2011 at a resulting briefing held in May,  2011. The company's other efforts for appropriate, timely  disclosure of information included an increased number of IR  meetings for institutional investors inside and outside Japan.  Communication via IR Website and  e-mail Newsletters   OKI has an IR  Website where a  range of investor  relations  information,  including financial  data, is posted  simultaneously in  English and  Japanese in order  to maintain fairness in information disclosure. In order to make  the site more accessible to investors, we renewed the  Japanese version and English version of the site in October  2011, and January 2012 respectively. Furthermore, we  improved the content of the page for individual investors in the  Japanese version in Mach 2012. We will continue to improve  the quality of the IR site.   We also send OKI News Mails to approximately 1,500  people, including our institutional investors and people who  have signed up on our website. This e-mail newsletter includes  the latest financial results, information on filings to securities  exchanges, press releases on topics such as new products  and services, and information on updates to our IR Website.   We will further promote the disclosure of information in a  responsive, and appropriate manner while complying with the  revisions of the Companies Act, the Financial Instruments and  Exchange Law and the timely disclosure rules of the Tokyo  Stock Exchange. O K I   G R O U P Good Communications with  Shareholders and Investors Achievements in Fiscal 2011 "Investor Relations" site on the web  http://www.oki.com/en/ir/ Resulting briefing (May 2011) understand manual. The new department is comprised of two  teams, one examines and creates manuals, and the other  focuses on operability and design. It aims at establishing  global operability with integrity in cooperation with the  Operability Committee, an organization whose members are  from different functional departments such as Design, Sales,  and CS Promotion. Based on the OKI Group's concept of  universal design, the department also pursues the  improvement of accessibility by reflecting considerations for  different types of challenged people including elderly people  and people with impaired color vision.  Enhancing Accessibility of Website   OKI has made utmost efforts to build truly accessible  websites in conformity with JIS standards and other  International standards by emphasizing the importance of  accessibility in the company's guidelines for websites since  2002. As part of such efforts, in October 2011, OKI renewed  the opening page and the pages for corporate information of  its website to make them conform with JIS X 8341-3:2010*, a  new JIS standard to ensure web accessibility to elderly and  challenged people. The new JIS standard includes a section to  test the accessibility of each web page and rank it in three  levels (A, AA and AAA). The above renewed pages were  evaluated to partly meet the requirements of the AA level. OKI  will continue to increase the number of web pages in  conformity with the standard. * JIS X 8341-3:2010 Guidelines for older persons and persons with disabilities-Information and communications equipment, software  and services-Part 3: Web content. It is a standard about accessibility launched in June, 2004 as part of the the  Japan Industrial Standards. It was revised later in August 2010.   24 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 O K I   G R O U P Respect for Employees Achievements in Fiscal 2011 2.00% 1.95% 1.90% 1.85% 1.80% 1.75% 1.70% 2008 2009 2010 2011 Fiscal year Percent Employment rate of  challenged people Employment rate of  challenged people Mandatory  employment rate * A special purpose subsidiary is a company established to provide special considerations  for the employment of challenged people as defined in the Law for Employment Promotion, etc. of the Disabled. Employment rates of challenged people    Believing that the protection of each employee's human  rights underlies all business activities, the OKI Group has  proclaimed "Respect for Human Rights" in the OKI Group  Charter of Corporate Conduct and the OKI Group Code of  Conduct, and emphasized the importance thereof through  education programs. The group has a strong commitment to  pursuing fair recruitment, and building working environments  with respect for diversity based on its vision: "Pride, Passion  and Sincerity."     We have also made various efforts at overseas group  companies such as the encouragement of the acquisition of  relevant certifications, and different educational and support  programs meeting the needs of each country or region.  Good Labor-Management Relationship  through Dialogue   OKI respects the freedom of association and collective  bargaining based on the laws in each country and region, and  puts great importance on building trust between employees  and management. In Japan, the company holds general  labor-management meetings with the company's top  executives and union leaders as well as divisional labor-  management meetings to exchange opinions and information  on economic conditions and labor issues.  Promoting the Employment of  Challenged People   The OKI Group has promoted the recruitment of severely  challenged people as teleworking employees through OKI  WorkWel, a special purpose subsidiary*of the group. As of April  2012, it employs 49 people with physical, intellectual, visual or  internal disabilities, including 35 teleworkers utilizing IT. The  percentage of challenged employees at the group in fiscal  2011 was 1.83%, a slight decrease from fiscal 2010. We will  continue to promote the employment of challenged people in  the future.    The OKI Group's overseas subsidiaries have also  addressed the recruitment of challenged people. OKI Electric  Industry (Shenzhen) in China entered an agreement with the Xili  Vocational Rehabilitation Center, and recruited 12 challenged  people as special employees in June 2011.  Helping Employees Develop Their Skills   The OKI Group offers more than 250 elective courses other  than compulsory or designated training courses for new recruits,  managers and specialists. Employees are able to choose the most  appropriate courses from among them in order to build the skills  required for their career goals. In fiscal 2011, OKI's employees  spent an average of 1.77 days to take such training course.  Establishing Support for the  Development of the Next Generation   OKI was granted the "Law for Measures to  Support the Development of the Next  Generation" certification (nicknamed "Kurumin")  by the Tokyo Labor Bureau. The main reason  for its acquisition of the certification was that it  had achieved the targets set in its Action Plan  in compliance with the Law for Measures to Support the Development  of the Next Generation.   In fiscal 2011, OKI introduced a new teleworking system for  employees responsible for childcare or nursing care as part of its third  Action Plan focusing on "establishing work-family balance through  various support programs that help employees take specific actions."  Promotion of Work-Life Balance   OKI has offered various supporting systems about  childbirth, child rearing and nursing care in order to help its  employees balance work and family life. Among them are a  flextime system and a HOP (discretionary labor) system that  allow flexible work styles. In case of "Special Leave for a  Particular Purpose," employees are allowed to take a leave for  medical care for themselves, nursing care for their families,  and other purposes including participation in social action  programs, education and school events.   Furthermore, the Work-Life Balance Promotion Committee,  with members from both the management and the labor union,  sets specific targets, checks and improves the relevant  systems for work-life balance. Information on such activities is  available on the intranet. In fiscal 2011, we focused on "the  efficient management of working hours," had all manager class  employees take a training program on this topic.  Promoting Mental and  Physical Health of Employees   The OKI Group has promoted Health OKI 21,a campaign to  facilitate voluntary health management of employees with support  from management, labor union and corporate health insurance  society. The Group gives useful advice through the intranet,  conducts surveys of employees, and offers exercise programs.  Furthermore, it has the Mental Health Working Group as an ad  hoc committee of the Central Safety and Health Committee,  promotes the utilization of "Kokoro Wellness Navi," a new tool to  support mental health, and provides a consultation services. Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct			Respect for Human Rights / A Better Working Environment / Respect for Employees  25 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 O K I   G R O U P Social Contribution Achievements in Fiscal 2011   The OKI Group, based on the Basic Philosophy and  Basic Policy for Social Contribution Activities, has  promoted various social action projects. More specifically,  the group has made donations, participated in regional  contribution activities, and supported social action  programs by employees. In order to be involved in a wide  range of social contribution activities, we have interacted  and collaborated with various nonprofit organizations, and  enhanced such activities inside and outside Japan.  Response to the Great East Japan  Earthquake   The OKI Group has  been active to relieve  people hit by the Great  East Japan Earthquake in  March 2011 and help  rebuild the afflicted areas.  The following table shows  specific support activities  by the group.   Among them, volunteer activities for reconstruction support  were organized in collaboration with Sompo Japan Insurance  Inc., Marubeni Corporation and Mizuho Financial Group Inc.,  and volunteers from among the group's employees visited  Shichigahama, a town in Miyagi Prefecture damaged by  tsunamis, ten times.  Donation-based Program  The OKI 100 Yen Fund of Love   The OKI Group has made assistance efforts for various  social action groups  through the OKI 100  Yen Fund of Love, a  donation-based social  action program. The  participants in this  program include  executives and  employees of the  member companies of  the OKI Group (22 companies as of April 2012) who agree with  the purport the program. They are asked to donate 100 yen a  month.   Among the groups assisted by the program is the  Architectural Association of Japanese DEAF (AAJD) which  produced "SOS Cards" in collaboration with OKI. These cards  help hearing-impaired people and foreigners communicate with  others about their physical problems in the event of an  emergency. AAJD released the cards in 15 different languages  for free of charge in July 2011. The EDF-Japan, another  recipient of the 100 yen fund, have helped secure educational  opportunities for children in Laos, Cambodia and Thailand. The  organization produced "Darunee Plates," a tool to collect coins  to be used as scholarship money.  Lecture on "Diverse Ways of Working"  at a Special Support School   OKI Workwell gave a  lecture about career  education for 14 junior  and senior high school  students at Tokyo  Metropolitan Bokuto  Special Support School  on February 24, 2012.  The lecture was  simultaneously shared with 7 students from Tokyo Metropolitan  Jonan Special Support School by use of Workwell  Communicator for School, a networking system developed by  the company.    The Tokyo Metropolitan Board of Education has  designated three special support schools for physically- disabled children including the above two as the model  schools for its career education initiative since fiscal 2010. The   lecture was given as part of the OKI Group's support for the  initiative in which President and two teleworking employees of  OKI Workwell talked about diverse ways of working utilizing IT  for challenged people.  Supporting the Operation of a Symposium on  Ethics & Social Responsibility Research   The Portugal office of OKI Data Group supported  Symposium on Ethics & Social Responsibility Research held  in Lisbon in April 2011 as a printing partner. Organized by the  ISCTE- Lisbon University Institute and CIS*, the two-day  symposium featured presentations of latest studies on ethics  and social responsibilities in organizational decision-making  processes, and practical discussions by participants from  around the world. OKI supported the operation of the  symposium by printing posters, brochures, lunch tickets and  other materials. *	CIS:	Centre	for	Social	Research	and	Intervention Monetary donation 10,000,000 yen (in parallel with lending of IT/network devices ) Funds raised  by employees Funds raised by employees in Japan (through management-labor  collaboration) Funds raised by overseas employees (donated through Red Cross  Society in each country ) Reconstruction  support  activities - Volunteer activities of employees for reconstruction support - A fair of made-in-Tohoku products at the OKI Warabi Culture Festival -  Donation of picture books to the Sanriku Culture Restoration Project in  collaboration with the NPO Action with Lao Children -  Event featuring a taketombo workshop and a marionette show for  employees and their families of the OKI Group in the Fukushima area -  Donation of a refrigerated blood transport vehicle to the Japan Red Cross  Miyagi Blood Center (as a matching gift from the 100 yen fund of Love) Support activities in fiscal 2011 Cleaning a tsunami-devastated beach Lecture at Bokuto Special Support School Darunee Plates for 500-yen coins (left) and 100-yen  coins (right) The coins put in all holes in a plate enable a child to go  to school for a period of one year. Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct			Social  Contribution / Regional Awareness  26 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012   In order to achieve the OKI  Group Environmental Vision 2020  (See Page 10) that outlines the  directions of the group's  environmental activities, we  coordinate and implement  environmental management  systems across the entire group  that underpin our environmental management  commitment. We actively promote the continued reduction  of environmental impact through our products and  business activities.  Environmental Contribution  through Products 70% Reduction of Power Consumption in Automated Teller  Machine (ATM)   The main requirements for ATMs used to be quiet, fast and  troubleproof operation. As customers have become  increasingly environmentally conscious since the enforcement  of the Revised Energy Saving Act, there has been an growing  need for ATMs with low power consumption. In order to meet  this need, OKI has tried to reduce power consumption of the  banknote handling module within its ATM system, and  achieved a total of 70% reduction of power consumption in the  standby and transaction modes.   Shift to the Power Saving Mode Immediately After Each  Transaction   The entire banknote handling module of the conventional  version of our ATM is always turned on to allow a prompt  return from standby mode. The machine goes into power  Logo for the OKI Group's  environmental activities Category Activities Targets for Fiscal 2014 Targets for Fiscal 2011 Achievements in Fiscal 2011 Results Evaluation See Page Products Control of  chemical  substances  contained in  products Operate and improve chemical  substance management    Regulations to control  chemical substances inside  and outside Japan   Response to revised standards  of the industry Reflect the results of the evaluation of  suppliers' CMS* in our procurement  standards Build a procedure to evaluate  suppliers' CMS and operate it on  a trial basis Established and started  operating a  procedure to evaluate CMS  12 13 Assemble and utilize a  database of Suppliers' CMS  evaluations Add a new function to increase  survey efficiency for chemical  products Added a web survey function  and started to operate thereof  Manufacturing low  power consumption  products Conform with laws and  regulations about power saving  as well as the industry's  initiatives Meet sales targets for Eco  Products certified in accordance  with the new standards Register more than three new  OKI Eco Products in  accordance with the new  certification standards Registered five new Eco Products  11 Website Business Activities Prevention of  global warming Reduce C02 emitted from  business activities (by introducing  highly efficient equipment, and  improving operational systems) Basic unit to be reduced by 1%  or more (compared to the  average of the past five years) Basic unit to be reduced by  1% or more (compared to the  average of the past five years) Reduced basic unit by 2.0%  1227 2829 Resource  Circulation Reduce newly input resources at  production sites Meet targets for the reduction  of newly input resources Maintain and continue  zero- emission Maintained and continued  zero-emission  1327 29 Environmental  Management Practices of OKI Group  environmental  management Streamline OKI Group  Environmental Management  System Examine the visualization of  environmental data about sites  inside and outside Japan Implement the consolidated  certification plan, and examine  the expansion thereof Completed consolidation  certification as planned and  added one site  Website Establish and operate a  biodiversity management  system Formulate a procedure to  evaluate biodiversity Prepare for a biodiversity  management system and  examine a plan for it Completed preparations for a  biodiversity management  system and enacted a plan for it  13 OKI Group Environmental Activity Plan (Fiscal 2011): Targets and Achievements Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct			Environmental Conservation O K I   G R O U P Consideration for the Environment Achievements in Fiscal 2011 saving mode if no one uses it for a certain period of time,  and the power is disconnected to some parts of the module.  The new ATM is designed to go into power saving mode  immediately after each transaction.   Reduction of Power Consumption in Power Saving Mode   In order to further save power in power saving mode, we  increased the number of parts to be disconnected in the  mode to include the banknote recognition sensors and  others.   Development of New Control Technology for Banknote  Recognition Sensors   Since high precision and quality is asked for sensors, it  usually takes a certain period of time for a sensor to secure  stable operation after it is activated. We developed a new  control technology to significantly reduce this time from  activation to stable operation. The technology has allowed  our ATM to promptly return from power saving mode.  Minimization of the Length of Banknote Conveyance Route   In order to save power consumed for conveying  banknotes, we minimized the length of the banknotes  conveyance route. The conventional conveyance route had  to be complex to deal with three types of transactions,  withdrawal, deposit, and refund at transaction cancellation.  We simplified it by developing a new component that allows  the sorting of banknotes for three directions. As a result, we  were able to decrease the number of components used for  the module and shorten the conveyance route by 40%.   As a result of these technological development and  functional improvements, we have achieved a dramatic  reduction of power consumption. We will continue to cater to  energy saving needs of customers and make various  proposals about ATM operation.  * CMS: Chemical Management System  27 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 Cap Sleeve Pallet ATM units (Imported from China) ATM components  (Exported to China) Dismantling Reuse Reuse of Packaging Materials for ATMs Twofold Improvement of Luminous Efficiency of  LED Printhead   OKI Digital Imaging (ODI) develops LED printheads. ODI  has achieved the twofold improvement of luminous efficiency  of its LED printheads by improving the LED structure. In a  digital LED printer, toner on the photoconductive drum  exposed to LED light from its LED printhead is transferred to  and fixed on paper (Figure 1). Thousands of LED chips are  mounted on the LED printhead. Each LED chip is comprised of  multiple semiconductors. ODI arrived at the best possible  combination of thickness, materials, density and other  conditions about semiconductor devices from among  numerous combinations. This combination secures the same  light output as the conventional LED printhead with half the  driving current. As a result, it allows the further reduction of  power consumption and prolongs LED life with less heat.  Environment Conservation Efforts in  Business Activities Reuse of Packaging Materials for ATMs   OKI's Mechatronics Systems Plant in Tomioka, Gunma  manufactures and assembles ATMs and other products. The  plant has promoted the reuse of packaging materials for ATMs  in cooperation with OKI Electric Industry (Shenzhen) in China  (OSZ). For example, the plant adopted new shock-absorbent  pallets for ATM units and components, and improved the  method to fix them on such pallets. This change has allowed  the plant to use the same packaging materials for three round  trips. Before that, packaging materials were disposed of after  being used for a one-way trip. As a result, the plant  dramatically reduced the annual purchase volume of new  packaging materials from 300 tons to 78 tons in fiscal 2011.   The plant also downsized its protectors for its ATM units  while maintaining the same shock-absorbing function. It  enables the plant to increase the number of ATM units loaded  in a shipborne container by 30%. As a result, it was able to  reduce CO2 emissions by 135 tons during the fiscal year. 74% Reduction of Waste Plastic Through Careful  Separation of Wastes   OKI Communication Systems in Tokorozawa, Saitama has  addressed the recycling of waste plastic since fiscal 2008. In  fiscal 2011, the company achieved a 74% reduction in disposal  amount and a 78% in disposal cost compared to fiscal 2008. In  order to facilitate careful separation for recycling, the company  discussed about appropriate ways to separate waste with its  contractor in the first place. It then established a system to  ensure careful separation by carrying out various awareness- raising activities. Among them were careful instructions at each  job site, the visualization of recycling effects, and the  dissemination of a Q&A guideline. The company also  introduced compressors for compressing waste plastic prior to  the contractor's collection thereof, and thus improved collection  efficiency. As a result of the promotion of these activities on a  company-wide basis, the company achieved the above  dramatic reduction in disposal amount and disposal cost.  Promoting Environmental Skills   The OKI Group has  offered various environmental  education programs at  different sites. OSZ in China  held "Low- carbon Knowledge  Contest," an event to raise  awareness about the  prevention of global warming, in May 2011. A total of 100  participants from the company's employees competed with  each other in this quiz-show-style contest. The participants  commented that they were impressed by the relationship  between their life styles and the prevention of global warming  as well as the importance of environmental conservation.  Pollution of Underground Water and Soil   The OKI Group has specified a group of observation points  at every production site and monitored the quality of  underground water there on a regular basis. During such a  regular examination at Honjo site, the groundwater sampled  from some observation points was measured to be a bit above  the normal level. In response to this, the OKI Group has  implemented appropriate recovery measures under the  guidance of the relevant local authorities. In fiscal 2011, no  underground water or soil pollution was observed.  Penalties / Claims   There were no environment-related penalties imposed on or  claims made against the OKI Group in fiscal 2011. Whenever  such an event occurs, we locate the cause thereof, deal with  the problem properly and take appropriate preventive steps. LED light LED printhead Photoconductive drum Figure 1:  Exposure of light from  LED printhead Figure 2:  LED chip with twofold  luminous efficiency Winning team in the "Low-Carbon Knowledge  Contest" at OSZ Compressed waste plastic Separated containers for waste plastic  28 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 Consideration for the Environment - Detailed Data Achievements in Fiscal 2011 0.5 0.4 19.1   15,567 64 11.3   7,251 19 69 0   4.1 0.8   15.6 62 0   4.1 0.9   9.2 71 143 745 2,081 126 2,159 134 0 80 125 751 1,654 75 1,330 145 0 39,012 33,819 1,199 315 318 566 1,286 366 305 615 109 93 Input Input Input Output Output Output The OKI Group  Development and Production Activities  Electricity Heavy oil  Benzine Million kWh kl kl kl Kerosene kl Total amount converted into crude oil  kl Light oil  Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Tap water  Industrial water 1,000 tons 1,000 tons 1,000 tons 1,000 tons Total Fiscal 2010 Substances subject to PRTR tons Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Quantity of waste emitted Substances subject to PRTR  Final waste disposal  tons   tons tons Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Waste emissions CO2* PFC   NOx SOx   Substances subject to PRTR Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Greenhouse gas Acidifying gas  Chemical substances km3 City gas  tons Liquefied petroleum gas tons Liquefied natural gas Groundwater / well water Fiscal 2011 Energy Consumption Emissions into the Atmosphere Water Use   Use of Chemical Substances Waste Emissions  1,000 tons - CO2 1,000 GWP-tons   tons tons   tons Substances subject to PRTRtons Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011  Emissions into Waters Chemical substances  Chemical substances Category Emission  (1,000 tons) Sites Major sites of the OKI  Group 41 Warabi district, Shibaura district, Takasaki district, Honjo district, Tomioka  district, Numazu district, OKI Data, Nagano OKI, OKI Printed Circuit, OKI  Metaltech, OKI Digital Imaging Other sites 21 Sites other than the above Total 62 All sites in the scope Environmental Impact of Business Activities (Material Balance)   The OKI Group uses energy, water and chemical substances as "input" to conduct business activities focusing on development and  production while discharging substances with environmental impact into the atmosphere and waters, and emitting wastes as "output."    In fiscal 2011, we widened the scope of the PRTR substances to be calculated in response to the revision of the PRTR system. The data  of fiscal 2010 were also revised to reflect this change. *Breakdown of CO2 Emissions   29 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 O K I  G R O U P Zero Emission as a recycling rate of 99% or more 0 80 90 100 99.8 99.1 99.6 99.1 2007 2008 2010 99.7 2011 2009 Material recycling rate (%) Fiscal year 0 20 40 60 80 2009 2010 2008 2007 2011 28 64 19 30 26 Fiscal year Final Disposal (tons)  CO2 Emissions from Transport Activities 0 2,000 1,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 CO2 emissions (tons) 4,213 3,259 2,682 3,721 4,677 2010 2009 2008 2007 2011 Fiscal year Recycling of Printer Supplies   OKI Customer Adtech has been active in reusing and  recycling printer supplies such as toners and drum cartridges.  The recycled product rate to sales volume was 2.5% in fiscal  2011 (a 48% decrease compared to fiscal 2010) due to an  increase in the sales volume of standard items. 0 0.8 0.4 1.6 1.2 2.0 3.6 2.8 2.4 3.2 0 75 85 80 90 100 95 2010 2011 2009 2008 2007 95.2 91.2 95.2 88.9 93.3 88.4 1.9 2.4 2.9 94.6 90.5 2.3 92.7 3.3 96.2 Material  recycling rate (%)*2  Recycling rate (%)*3 Fiscal year Reuse rate (%) *1  Recycling of Used Products Fiscal year 0 5 15 20 10 % 22.8 18.3 15.3 4.8 2007 2008 2009 2010 2.5 2011  Recycled Product Rates  Amount of Wastes Subject to Final Disposal Emitted from Main Production Sites  Material Recycling Rates of Main Production Sites Reducing Environmental Impact of Business Activities and Products   The OKI Group has been active in reducing environmental impact of its business activities and products in order to contribute to  environmental conservation. Reducing Environmental Impact of Physical Distribution   OKI, as a shipper, has enhanced its efforts to reduce environmental impact of physical  distribution in partnership with OKI Proserve (hereinafter called OPS). As a pioneer in  reducing CO2 emissions by adopting modal shift, OPS has accumulated a wide spectrum  of transit information and organized it into a database to fully meet the requirements of the  Energy Saving Act. In fiscal 2011, the CO2 emissions reduced by modal shift amounted to  591 tons (virtually flat from the previous fiscal year). The total volume of CO2 emitted from  our transport activities in fiscal 2011 amounted to 4,677 tons, a 11% increase compared to  the previous fiscal year, partly due to production increase and growing local transport  using small freights. Promotion of Material Recycling (Zero Emission)       The OKI Group has been active in improving its material  recycling rate*1 since 1996. In fiscal 2002, we achieved "zero  emission"*2 at main production sites. In fiscal 2011, the material  recycling rate was 99.7%. Amount of Wastes Subject to Final Disposal   The amount of the general and industrial wastes emitted from  the OKI Group's main production sites and subject to final  disposal was 19 tons in fiscal 2011 due to the reduction of waste  fluids and other efforts. Recycling of Used Products   The volume of used products collected in fiscal 2011 was  4,692 tons (with an 86% increase compared to fiscal 2010), with  an increased number of collected ATMs as a main factor. The  material recycling rate was 96.2% and remained at the almost  same level as fiscal 2010. *1  Material recycling rate: quantity of material-recycled resources / (quantity of material- recycled resources + quantity of  wastes subject to final disposal) x 100 *2 Zero emission: defined by the OKI Group as a material recycling rate of 99% or more *1 Reuse rate: the ratio of reused parts and materials to collected used products (in mass). *2 Material recycling rate: the ratio of material recycling and reuse to collected used products (in mass).  *3 Recycling rate: the ratio of material recycling, thermal recycling and reuse to collected used products (in mass).  30 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 Achievements in Fiscal 2011 Consideration for the Environment - Detailed Data C841dn with the lowest sleep mode power  consumption of the series *  Standard integrated cash management system: an integrated cash management system with a safe for small bundles of banknotes (each bundle contains 100 banknotes) . Any smaller system without such a safe is excluded.  *1  SVHC: Substances of very high concern specified by the European Chemical Agency that are carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic such as endocrine disturbing  chemicals. *2  Ion attachment mass spectrometry (IA/MS): A form of mass spectrometry that uses the ionization of an organic chemical substance to be analyzed by attaching  lithium ion to it without changing its molecular weight. Sample Metallic compound Analysis report Selection of constituents  to be measured  (for each material) Ion attachment mass spectrometry NO YES ICP analysis  REACH-compliant SVHC Analysis Flow Environmentally Conscious Products   The OKI Group has developed various environmentally conscious products utilizing its innovative technologies and offered them to  customers. CM21Ex, a New Integrated Cash Management System That Reduces  Standby Power Consumption by Half   OKI launched CM21Ex, a new integrated cash management system in November 2011.  The system is intended to be used at sales offices of financial institutions for handling and  managing cash. In order to cater to an increasing need for lower power consumption of our  customers, CM21Ex allows a 50% reduction of standby power consumption by introducing  the industry's first comprehensive energy-saving mode for standard integrated cash  management system*.   The new system also reduces the amount of paper used for paper bands for banknote  bundles by 10% compared to the preceding systems. (Each bundle contains 100 banknotes.)  It also features an autoload function for paper bands to reduce workload of users.   Furthermore, the system features several functions to streamline inspection and auditing  tasks of users. Among them are a feature to track the history of unauthorized operations (such  as opening or closing of the access cover), and the industry's first audit/reference function  that allows the creation of written documents of different records. A3 Color LED Printers with the Lowest 0.7W Sleep-Mode Power  Consumption of the Series   In November 2011, OKI Data launched three new models of its A3 color LED printers,  C841dn, C811dn and C811dn-T. With these models equipped with a proprietary integrated  circuit called Green ASIC, the company has reduced the lowest sleep-mode power  consumption of the COREFIDO series (aimed at the Japanese market) from 0.9W to 0.7W.    The models also feature an auto power off function that automatically turns off the power if  the printers are not operated for a specific period of time, and prevents users from wasting  power by forgetting to turn them off after their printing tasks.   The company has made the internal mechanism of the new models much simpler than  those of their preceding models by making maximum use of its LED technology. This change  has made the models very compact. The area of space occupied by each of the models is  smaller than that of any other model in the world.* CM21Ex, a new integrated cash  management system *  20% less than the area of space occupied by any other A3 color LED or laser printer as of October 2011 according to the data provided by OKI Data. REACH-compliant SVHC Analysis Service   Laws and regulations to control chemical substances in products have become  increasingly demanding. For example, the scope of the REACH regulation, one of the most  widely accepted regulations for such substances, is expanded every year to include new  Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC)*1 to be controlled. Consequently, the management  of chemical substances has become very important for any company. In this context, OKI  Engineering launched a new service to analyze SVHCs in a short period of time in June 2011.  Since some SVHCs cannot be detected by the conventional abbreviated analysis methods,  corporations have to spend time and money for more precise analysis. OKI Engineering  developed a new analysis method based on ion attachment mass spectrometry (IA/MS)*2 for  substances that are hard to detect by the conventional methods. The company offers a  prompt screening analysis service by combining this method and ICP analysis.   31 OKI Group's  Social and Environmental Report 2012 O K I  G R O U P * Exchange rate : 128 yen / , 2.74 yen / Baht  Main Efforts in Each Category in Japan  Main Efforts in Each Category in Overseas Category Main Efforts Amount Site/Company Investment Shift to recyclable packaging materials 5,143 OKI Electric Industry (Shenzhen) Facility remodeling for improving production  efficiency 3,711 DongGuan TangXia OKI Micro Engi- neering Factory Renovation of effluent treatment facilities 1,075 OKI Data Manufacturing (Thailand) Costs Costs for RoHS analysis 15,100 OKI Telecommunications Technology  (Changzhou) Waste management costs 11,823 OKI (UK) Training for environmental auditors 1,202 OKI Electric Technology(Kunshan) Category Main Efforts Amount Site Investment  Recycling of waste plastic, metal, glass and other materials 50,629 OKI Data Shift to energy-saving air conditioning systems 17,600 Honjo district Renewal of lighting fixtures 16,000 Tomioka district Shift to energy-saving air conditioning systems 8,300 Nagano OKI Shift to LED lighting 7,600 Shibaura district Costs Development of highly-durable products 102,586 OKI Data Development of low temperature fixing toner 100,367 OKI Data Development costs for making the existing products more energy-efficient 74,304 OKI Data Efforts for improving energy efficiency of lighting and air conditioning systems 10,713 Takasaki district Development costs for environmentally conscious products 6,270 OKI Techno Power Systems Economic Effects Sale of valuable waste 156,603 OKI Sensor Device Sale of valuable waste 75,231 OKI Printed Circuits Energy saving effects through various power-saving efforts 27,582 Honjo district Energy saving effects through various power-saving efforts 6,958 Takasaki district Energy saving effects through various power-saving efforts 4,530 OKICommunication Systems  Investment / Costs Category Main Efforts Investment Costs 2010 2011 2010 2011 Cost in  business  areas Pollution prevention cost Investment in pollution control facilities, and maintenance and operation costs 9 6 41 46 Global environment conservation costcost Investment in energy-saving facilities, and maintenance and operation costs 236 164 90 133 Resource recycling cost Investment in facilities for internal treatment of organic waste liquid, waste recycling costs 59 156 261 244 Total 305 326 391 423 Upstream / downstream cost Green procurement (chemical substances survey) costs, costs for remodeling systems to collect data on chemical substances contained in products 3 28 275 280 Administration cost Costs for obtaining environment management certifications, and maintenance and operation costs 17 16 233 219 R&D cost R&D costs for creating energy-saving products 1 1 599 471 Social activity cost Costs for planting trees in production sites, costs for activities contributing to local communities 2 2 3 3 Environmental damage cost Cost for reserves to respond to environmental damages, insurance cost and surcharge 0 0 1 1 Other cost  0 0 0 0 Total 328 373 1,501 1,397  Economic Effects  Environmental Conservation Effects Category Main Efforts Effects 2010 2011 Cost  reduction  effect Effect of saving energy and resources Reduction of electricity, petroleum, gas, packaging materials, etc. used in business activities 104 256 Effect of reducing treatment cost Reduction of wastes generated from business activities through recycling 1 22 Real income effect Sale of valuable wastes generated from business activities 149 376 Sale of used valuable products 9 10 Total 53 664 Environmental  Conservation Effects Impact Difference  compared to  previous  fiscal year 2010 2011 CO2 emissions (tons) 68,583 61,667 6,916 Waste  emissions Final waste disposal  (tons)   64 19 45 Environmental Accounting   The OKI Group introduced environmental accounting in fiscal 1999. Since then, we have conducted environmental activities in a highly  efficient way to optimize investment effects. Environmental Conservation Costs   The OKI Group has adopted a specific procedure for selecting equipment and devices with low environmental impact and has used it when  renewing or introducing any infrastructure system. For example, we have replaced energy consuming facilities with energy-saving ones, and  promoted the recycling of wastes through capital spending. Capital investment in fiscal 2011 amounted to 373 million yen (compared to 328  million yen in the previous fiscal year) while the amount of costs was 1.397 billion yen (compared to 1.501 billion yen in the previous fiscal year). Benefits Related to Environmental Conservation Costs   The economic effects increased to 660 million yen (compared to 50 million yen in the previous fiscal year). One of the main factors of this  dramatic growth was an increase in real income from a sale of used variable products due to the appropriate separation of wastes. The  substantial decrease of energy used though power-saving efforts on a site level also contributed to this growth. Major Environmental Conservation Efforts   The following tables show main efforts with respect to "investment," "costs" and "economic effects" calculated in our environmental  accounting. (Unit: million yen) (Unit: million yen) Unit: 1,000 yen)  Unit: 1,000 yen)  Accounting Conditions   	When environmental conservation costs and other costs are consumed for a single activity, only the environment costs are calculated for environmental accounting. 	The depreciation cost of investment is calculated using the fixed installment method for a period of three years. The economic benefits achieved due to    these investments is calculated for three years, in line with the depreciation period. 	Personnel costs are calculated by prorating the personnel costs for the total time spent on environmental conservation activities. 	The real income effect represents the value for the current fiscal year.   CSR Division 1-7-12 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8460, Japan oki-csr@oki.com     http://www.oki.com/ Published in June 2012  NOTE: (pp.6-7)  On September 14, 2012, Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd restated its past financial  results from FY end. March 31, 2008 to FY end. March 31, 2012.    Impact amount on Net Sales due to restatement     Net Sales by Business Segment in fiscal 2011 (Consolidated)    Net Sales by Market in fiscal 2011 (Consolidated)      Related press release:    OKI Announces Financial Results for the First Quarter of the Fiscal Year ending  March 31, 2013 and Restates its Past Financial Results (September 14, 2012)      http://www.oki.com/en/ir/accounts/2013q1/2013q1.html