1 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Message from Chairman and President Feature 1  For the Future of Africa Feature 2  Sumitomo Chemicals Next-Generation Technologies to                  Meet the Challenge of Climate Change Sumitomo Chemicals Corporate Philosophy Sustainable Chemistry Green Processes and Clean Products CSR and Compliance Promotion System Achievements in Fiscal 2009 and Initiatives for Fiscal 2010 CSR Highlights 2009 Social Contribution Activities Responsible Care Activities Economic Activities Foundation of CSR-based Management Corporate Governance Compliance UN Global Compact Social Activities Hand in Hand with Local Communities and Society Hand in Hand with Business Partners Hand in Hand with Employees Responsible Care Activities Progress in the Ful llment of the Eco-First Commitments Responsible Care Primary Responsible Care Initiatives: Targets and Progress Group Company Initiatives Environmental Performance of the Sumitomo Chemical Group     (Environmental Impact and Environmental Accounting) Promoting Sustainable Environmental Management Environmental Protection Activities Safety Initiatives Initiatives for Ensuring Quality, Safety, and Environmental Protection in     Logistics Operations Chemical Safety Management throughout the Life Cycle of Chemical Products Responsible Care (RC) Audits Quality Assurance Initiatives Economic Activities Business Sectors Business Locations Business Performance in Fiscal 2009 Corporate Business Plan (Fiscal 2010 to 2012)  Third-Party Evaluation and Commendation, and Marks that have been     Approved for Use Independent Assurance GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Reference Table CONTENTS 2 4 8 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 29 31 32 38 40 46 48 50 52 54 58 60 64 67 68 70 71 74 76 77 78 80 81 82 
2 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Message from  Chairman and President       Our business must benefit not only ourselves but also  communities and society at large. This is a principle of the  Sumitomo Familys Business Philosophy, which forms the  core of Sumitomo Chemicals corporate values.       Sumitomo Chemical was founded in 1913 as Sumitomos  fertilizer manufacturing company, which produced fertilizers  by converting harmful emissions from smelting operations  at the Besshi Copper Mine in Niihama, Ehime Prefecture.  Created to provide solutions to overcome an environmental  problem and help increase agricultural production, the Com- pany is a perfect example of the Sumitomo Familys Business  Philosophy, and the conviction that the essence of corporate  social responsibility (CSR) is to contribute to the sustainable  development of society through business activities is encod- ed in the Companys DNA.        In formulating our recently announced Corporate Busi- ness Plan for fiscal 2010 to 2012, we have developed our  Corporate Vision that sets out our long-term management  policies. One of the central policies is that we will aim to help  meet global challenges, from improving peoples lives and  health to increasing energy and food security, to building a  low-carbon society, and will contribute to the sustainable de- velopment of the global community by taking full advantage  of the power of chemistry. In January 2010, we established  our CSR Department to promote our CSR activities while  stepping up eff orts to achieve our Corporate Vision.       Responsible Care (RC), an initiative for ensuring safety,  protecting the environment and maintaining high product  quality throughout the lifecycle of our products, from de- velopment to manufacturing and sale, to use and disposal,  is a central pillar of our CSR activities. In aiming to help solve  problems related to resources, energy and the environ- ment—particularly the issue of climate change—all of which  are becoming more pressing globally, we have been putting  forth signifi cant eff orts to achieve the worlds highest energy  effi  ciency and develop processes and products that help re- duce CO2 emissions. In January 2010, we established our En- ergy & Climate Change Offi  ce to promote concerted eff orts  by the entire Sumitomo Chemical Group and respond more  eff ectively to the issues of energy and climate change.       We are also actively participating in international initia- tives led by the global chemical industry. The International  Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA), the global organiza- tion of major chemical industry associations representing  Our Commitment to the Sustainable  Development of the Global Community Hiroshi Hirose, President Hiromasa Yonekura, Chairman  
3 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 chemical companies worldwide, has established a climate  change and energy working group, and Sumitomo Chemical  has been playing a central role in the group and leading its  activities since its inception. The group demonstrated lead- ership in the ICCAs initiative in 2009 to quantitatively study  and analyze how products of the chemical industry, such as  insulation materials and photovoltaic cell materials, as they  are used by consumers and other industries in various ap- plications, contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas  emissions. The fi ndings revealed that the reduction in green- house gas emissions from the use of chemical products is ap- proximately double to triple the amount of greenhouse gas  emissions attributable to chemical products over their entire  lifecycles.       The chemical industry, which provides a wide range of  products in various forms, from raw materials and compo- nents to finished goods, and makes vast contributions to  daily lives of people around the world, should continue to  play a major role in meeting the global challenges of climate  change. We, the Sumitomo Chemical Group, will remain fi rm- ly committed to tackling these issues by making full use of  the power of chemistry and our technological prowess and  to providing leadership in the eff orts of the global chemical  industry.       We have been providing support for Africa by working on  the prevention of malaria, which is one of the Millennium De- velopment Goals (MDGs), a set of goals defi ned by the United  Nations to address the most pressing challenges facing hu- man society. Malaria is a mosquito-borne infectious disease  that claims the lives of more than one million people every  year. Many of the victims are children under the age of fi ve  living in the Sub-Saharan region of Africa.       Sumitomo Chemical developed the Olyset Net, a special  insecticidal mosquito net for controlling malaria. The Olyset Net is highly durable and also retains its insecticidal effi  cacy  for more than fi ve years because our technology enables the  insecticide contained in the material of its fi bers to migrate  gradually to the surface of the fi bers. In 2001, our Olyset Net  was endorsed by the World Health Organization (WHO) as a  long-lasting insecticidal net, becoming the fi rst of its kind in  the world, and has since enjoyed strong demand growth as  one of the most eff ective means of preventing malaria.       To increase Olyset Net production capacity, we licensed  our manufacturing technology free of charge to a mosquito  net manufacturer in Tanzania and started local production in  2003 in the hope of creating new jobs and supporting self- sustaining economic growth in Africa. In 2007, we started  operation of a joint venture with this local manufacturer, and  we currently have an annual production capacity of 29 mil- lion nets and employ as many as 7,000 people in Africa. This  year, we expanded our global production capacity to 60 mil- lion nets per annum in response to a request from the WHO,  which has set the goal of providing one long-lasting insecti- cidal net for every two people in areas at high risk of malaria  infection.       We are also supporting projects to build schools and re- lated facilities in Africa by returning a portion of the revenues  from the Olyset  Net business. We are thus implementing a  variety of initiatives to help meet the major challenges facing  Africa and accelerate progress toward the MDGs.       As a framework for businesses to contribute directly to  solving international problems caused by globalization and  achieving sustainable growth, Kofi Annan, then Secretary- General of the United Nations, proposed the Global Com- pact, which sets forth ten principles for corporate behavior in  the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment,  and anti-corruption. Sumitomo Chemical joined in this initia- tive in 2005. Since becoming the fi rst Japanese company to  participate in the Global Compact working groups in 2008,  we have helped prepare guidelines on the tenth principle for  anti-corruption as well as on the contribution of businesses  to peace and development. We will continue to work closely  together with a variety of stakeholders, including the United  Nations and other international organizations, NGOs, and  other companies, and promote CSR activities as a member of  the global community.       We, the Sumitomo Chemical Group, will strive to help ad- dress pressing global challenges, such as the improvement  of the lives of people around the world, the issues of energy  and the environment, and the creation of a low carbon so- ciety, and contribute to the sustainable development of the  global community through our businesses. We would greatly  appreciate your continued support and cooperation. Hiromasa Yonekura Chairman of Sumitomo Chemical Co., Ltd. Hiroshi Hirose President of Sumitomo Chemical Co., Ltd. 
4 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 1 Feature Malaria Takes the Life of One Child Every 30 Seconds      To many people, mosquito nets may sound like an  obsolete technology, but a great many people worldwide  are still in need of the protection they provide. Children in  Africa, in particular, are especially vulnerable to malaria,  an infectious disease transmitted by the Anopheles mos- quito.      Every year, over 300 million people around the world  develop malaria and more than one million people die  from the disease. People living in Africa account for 90  percent of these deaths, and most of the victims are  children under the age of  ve living in the Sub-Saharan  region. It is a sad fact that malaria takes the life of one  child every 30 seconds.      Those who survive malaria still suffer from a high fever  and must stay in bed for several days, which leads to in- creased poverty due to the loss of employment and edu- cational opportunities added to the high cost of medical  treatment. If the economic growth of a whole country is  hindered by the spread of malaria, funding for anti-malar- ia measures dries up and the country falls into a vicious  circle. Malaria is one of the biggest barriers to economic  Number of  malaria-infected  people in the world:  243 million people  (2008 estimate) Africa (208  million people) Southeast Asia  (24 million people) Other areas  (11 million people) Number of  people killed by  malaria in Africa:  767,000 (2008  estimate) Younger than  ve years (88%) Aged ve or  older (12%) For the Future of Africa The Olyset Net, an insecticidal mosquito net that helps prevent  the spread of malaria, symbolizes the CSR initiatives of Sumitomo Chemical,  which is committed to business activities that contribute to the creation  of a prosperous society. Malaria-Prone Regions Source: World Malaria Report 2009 (WHO) 
5 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 development in Africa, and the economic losses caused  by the disease are estimated at 12 billion dollars annu- ally.      Stopping the spread of malaria is therefore included  in the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), which are  targets with action plans to be urgently implemented  and achieved by 2015 based on the Millennium Declara- tion adopted by the United Nations in September 2000.  These targets are grouped into eight categories, includ- ing poverty, education, the environment, and human  rights. Malaria Control Initiatives  and the Olyset Net      The World Health Organization (WHO) has been im- plementing the Roll Back Malaria campaign since 1998.  Recognizing the added effectiveness of mosquito nets  when insecticides are applied, the WHO initially tried to  encourage people to apply insecticide to mosquito nets  themselves. This method, however, was not very effec- tive because most people failed to repeat the application  process regularly and the effect was lost through wash- ing and the passing of time.      The WHOs attention was then drawn to the Olyset  Net developed by Sumitomo Chemical, which retains  its insecticidal ef cacy for  ve years or longer even with  repeated washing. The fibers of this highly durable net  are made from polyethylene resin kneaded together with  an insecticide, which is then gradually released to the  surface of the netting  bers. Because it is designed to be  used in Africa, where it is very hot, the mesh is twice as  large as that of an ordinary mosquito net in order to im- prove air circulation. Sumitomo Chemical developed the  Olyset Net through Creative Hybrid Chemistry, combin- ing its proprietary technologies in the two separate  elds  of insecticides and resin processing.      In 2001, the WHO endorsed the use of the Olyset  Net, calling it the  rst long-lasting insecticidal net. With  results from a limited regional trial indicating an impres- sive decline in the local rate of malarial infection, the  distribution of long-lasting insecticidal nets has become  one of the major means of controlling malaria. Creating Employment through  Local Production      In 2003, Sumitomo Chemical provided its Olyset Net  manufacturing technology free of licensing fees to A to Z  Textile Mills Limited, a Tanzanian manufacturer, with the  aim of kick-starting local production of the net in Africa  and building a framework for public-private partnerships  with international organizations such as the WHO and  United Nations Childrens Fund (UNICEF). Subsequently,  in order to respond to a rapid increase in demand, Sumi- tomo Chemical and A to Z Textile Mills established the  joint venture Vector Health International Limited in 2007.  As of July 2010, the local production capacity in Tan- zania totaled 29 million nets, and the number of people  employed by the company reached approximately 7,000.  The Olyset Net business is thus contributing to local  economic development.      In 2008, the WHO, promoting the policy of universal  Photograph  M. Hallahan/Sumitomo Chemical Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger Achieve universal primary education Promote gender equality and empower women Reduce child mortality Improve maternal health Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases Ensure environmental sustainability Develop a Global Partnership for Development Goal 1 Goal 2 Goal 3 Goal 4 Goal 5 Goal 6 Goal 7 Goal 8 Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) China Vietnam India Ethiopia Tanzania  Olyset Net production bases Malawi  Manufacturing factories  Sewing factories Olyset Net manufacturing factory in Tanzania Source: Website of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) 
6 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 On May 2, 2010, the Second TICAD Ministerial Follow-up Meeting was  held in Arusha, Tanzania. The meeting brought together a total of 430 people from Africa and  around the world representing international organizations, NGOs, and  the private sector. The meeting was co-chaired by President Kikwete  of Tanzania and Mr. Katsuya Okada, then Japans Minister of Foreign  Aff airs. Participants reviewed progress on the implementation of the  Yokohama Action Plan drafted at the Fourth Tokyo International Con- ference on African Development (TICAD IV) held in Yokohama in 2008  and discussed future challenges. Representing Japanese industry, Sumitomo Chemicals Chairman,  Hiromasa Yonekura, also attended the meeting and delivered a speech  in which he considered the roles to be fulfi lled by the private sector for  the growth and development of Africa, emphasized the importance of  public-private partnership, and shared examples of how the Olyset   Net has been used. During his stay in Tanzania, Mr. Okada visited the lo- cal Olyset  Net factory to see how the nets were sewn, inspected and  put through other processes. coverage, enlarged its pool of candidates for malaria  control, which had previously been limited to pregnant  women and infants. Under this policy, the organization  aims to distribute one long-lasting insecticidal net per  two people in malaria-prone areas. It is estimated that  the ful llment of this aim will require 250 million nets. To  meet the demand, Sumitomo Chemical has increased  the total Olyset Net production capacity of its produc- tion bases in the three countries of Tanzania, China and  Vietnam to 60 million nets per year. Educational Support for  the Leaders of Tomorrow      For Africa to achieve development, it is critical to pro- vide local people with education. African countries, how- ever, have a shortage of schools and a great number of  children have to study outdoors or in overcrowded class- rooms.      Sumitomo Chemical has been supporting education  in Africa by returning a portion of its revenues from the  Olyset Net business to local communities. In coopera- tion with an NPO called World Vision Japan, we have  supported nine projects to construct primary and sec- 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Millions of nets 3 3.4 13 3 18 30 38 3 11 19 0.4 Worldwide In Tanzania Fiscal year 51 29 29 60 ondary school buildings as well as dormitories for teach- ers and school lunch facilities in the five countries of  Ethiopia, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, and Zambia.      Once the construction is complete, we continue to  provide support for school fees and supplies, thereby  helping the next generation of leaders get the education  they need. Second TICAD Ministerial Follow-up Meeting Feature 1  For the Future of Africa Production Capacity for the Olyset Net History of Sumitomo Chemicals Support to Africa 1994 1998 2000 2001 2003 2005 2006 2007 2010 Develops the Olyset  Net. The Roll Back Malaria campaign starts. The UN Millennium Development Goals formulated. The WHO endorses the long-lasting insecticidal  Olyset  Net. A to Z in Tanzania begins local production of the  Olyset  Net. Mr. Yonekura, then President of Sumitomo Chemical, at- tends the World Business Forum held in Davos, Switzerland. The Olyset  Net is chosen as one of the Coolest In- ventions of 2004 by Time magazine. About 330,000 Olyset  Nets are donated to NPO Mil- lennium Promise. Supports the construction of schools in Tanzania and  Kenya (and subsequently provides educational sup- port also in Uganda, Zambia, and Ethiopia). Receives a corporate citizen award from The Asahi  Shimbun Company. Vector Health (joint venture between Sumitomo Chem- ical and A to Z) begins production of the Olyset  Net. Decides to donate 400,000 Olyset  Nets to Millen- nium Promise. 
7 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Ethiopia Kenya Tanzania Zambia Uganda Toward Achievement of the MDGs      Nations, regions, international organizations, NGOs,  and businesses are working together to achieve the  MDGs throughout the world.      Through its Olyset Net business, Sumitomo Chemi- cal is working to prevent the spread of malaria and there- by reduce child mortality and improve maternal health.  Moreover, we are conducting a wide range of other ac- tivities to contribute to the achievement of the MDGs. For  example, local production of the Olyset Net contributes  to the elimination of poverty and providing educational  support using a portion of the revenues from the busi- ness contributes to achieving the goal of universal pri- mary education.      We will continue to make contributions to the sustain- able development in Africa through our business opera- tions. School construction Improving educational environment Donating 400,000 Olyset Nets to  Millennium Promise Millennium Promise is an international nonprofit organization solely  committed to supporting the achievement of the Millennium Develop- ment Goals (MDGs) to halve extreme poverty by 2015. Sumitomo Chemi- cal has been supporting the Millennium Village Project * started by this  NPO and donated 330,000 Olyset Nets to the organization in 2006. The  end of the fi ve-year eff ective lifespan of those nets is drawing near, and  therefore, in 2010, the Company decided to donate another 400,000  nets to Millennium Promise, which will be distributed from 2010 to  2011. Photograph  M. Hallahan/Sumitomo Chemical  Educational Support in Africa     (including joint support with other companies) *Millennium Village Project A plan to help eliminate extreme poverty, one of the MDGs, by assisting people  living in approximately 80 villages in 10 African countries to lead self-su  cient  lives. Comprehensive support is given in areas including agriculture, health and  sanitation, and education. 
8 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Emergence of Global Warming      The problem of climate change, particularly the issue of  global warming, is becoming increasingly evident world- wide, and it is essential that the international community  make a concerted effort to address this urgent problem.      It is said that without greenhouse gases such as car- bon dioxide (CO2) and methane in the Earths atmosphere,  the global average temperature would drop to 18C below  zero. It is indeed thanks to atmospheric greenhouse gases  maintaining comfortable temperatures that plants and ani- mals, including humans, can live on Earth.      Minor changes in the concentrations of greenhouse  gases in the atmosphere, however, can exert an impact on  the surface temperature of Earth, and it is said that global  warming is caused by increases in greenhouse gases re- sulting from the increased use of oil and coal in industrial  activities.      Amid concerns about the grave consequences, such  as rising sea levels, desertification, and changes in the  ecosystem if global warming continues at its current pace,  international guidelines have been formulated for reducing  greenhouse gas emissions. The report of the Intergovern- mental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) is one prominent  example. The report asserts that CO2 emissions must be  reduced by 50-80% from 2000 levels by 2050 in order to  limit rises in average temperatures to 2.0-2.4C above  temperatures prior to the Industrial Revolution. Chemical Products Contributing to Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions      As the problem of climate change escalates, it is cru- cial for industries to set more ambitious reduction targets  and devise and implement multifaceted measures. Ac- 2 Feature Sumitomo Chemicals  Next-Generation Technologies to  Meet the Challenge of Climate Change Sumitomo Chemical continues to leverage the power of chemistry to provide products that  contribute to bettering peoples lives. Our technological prowess has also enabled us to boast  a variety of achievements in the  elds of energy and the environment. Here, we present the past  achievements and future initiatives of Sumitomo Chemical, where we are promoting a broad  spectrum of activities with our sights set on the future of the global environment. 
9 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 cordingly, the Japanese chemical industry has set a non- binding target to reduce the entire industrys average unit  energy consumption for the period from 2008 to 2012 by  20% relative to the fiscal 1990 level. Sumitomo Chemi- cal has taken a further step in this direction by making  an Eco-First commitment to the Japanese Minister of the  Environment, in which we promised to reduce the energy  intensity* of all our plants by 25% relative to fiscal 1990  levels by  scal 2015, and we are currently working toward  ful lling this commitment. We have already made signi - cant progress, having achieved the worlds highest energy  ef ciency at our petrochemical manufacturing plants, as  demonstrated by the results of many surveys conducted  by the International Energy Agency (IEA) and other organi- zations.      Many chemical products used in a range of industrial   elds are based mainly on naphtha, a byproduct of re ned  crude oil, and the chemical industry is generally thought of  as a vast consumer of energy and resources. What is less  known, however, is that the industry provides a variety of  products that help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. For  example, light-weight resin products have contributed to  reduced vehicle weight, which has in turn led to higher  fuel effciency. In addition, resin-based insulating materials  have substantially improved housing insulation while pan- els for solar power generation systems were developed  through chemical technologies. Climate Change Initiatives from a Medium- to Long-Term Perspective      Sumitomo Chemical has been promoting activities to  reduce its environmental impact and has achieved steady  results based on the idea that the Company should pro- mote energy conservation in production processes while  manufacturing products based on innovative technologies  that contribute to energy conservation in various sectors  of society worldwide. We regard the problem of climate  change as one of our managements top priorities, and  established the Energy & Climate Change Of ce in Janu- ary 2010 in order to respond appropriately to the problem  from a medium- to long-term perspective.      In our Three-Year Corporate Business Plan started in  fiscal 2010, we have also positioned achievement of the  worlds highest energy ef ciency and development of pro- cesses and products that help reduce CO2 emissions as  our important missions.      We have already been working for many years on the  development of next-generation products that contrib- ute to the reduction of CO2 emissions in numerous areas  of R&D and are accelerating the development of related  technologies for early commercialization. On the following  pages we will introduce some of these technologies. For example, the development of a more  environmentally friendly car requires: Sumitomo Chemicals major petrochemical manu- facturing plants have been proven to be among the  worlds most energy-efficient through surveys con- ducted by the IEA and other organizations. This photo  shows the ethylene plant (naphtha cracker) at the  Chiba Works. Several approaches can be taken to developing a more  environmentally friendly car, all of which require chemi- cal technologies. The chemical industry contributes to  the prevention of global warming by providing products  that help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. How the Chemical Industry Contributes to  the Prevention of Global Warming Improving on conventional  automobile technologies Reducing the weight of materials Diesel particulate filter Developing a new power  system Fuel cells Lithium ion secondary batteries Developing new fuels Biofuels Clean diesel engine Fuel cell vehicles Electric vehicles Hybrid vehicles *Energy intensity Energy consumption per unit production amount 
10 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Sumitomo Chemicals Next-Generation  Technologies Bring You the Future Sumitomo Chemicals Next-Genera- tion Technologies that Contribute  to Preventing Climate Change   Polymer Organic Light-Emitting Diodes (PLEDs)      Polymer organic light-emitting diode (PLED) technol- ogy is attracting global attention as a technology for next- generation displays and lighting devices. PLEDs use poly- mer materials that emit light when an electric current is  applied, and consume little power and are environmentally  friendly. The production process itself is also more ener- gy-ef cient because these products, which have a thinner  and simpler structure than that of LCDs, can be manufac- tured using printing technology. Furthermore, they do not  contain hazardous substances, making it possible also to  reduce energy consumption during their disposal.      For the development of its unique PLED technology,  Sumitomo Chemical has brought together a range of its  related proprietary technologies, including those for poly- mer materials, thin film formation, and the design and  synthesis of organic compounds. We are now making de- termined efforts toward the early commercialization of this  technology. Lithium Ion Secondary Battery and Fuel Cell Materials      Gasoline-powered vehicles are increasingly being  phased out and replaced with hybrid, electric, and fuel cell  vehicles. In response to this trend, Sumitomo Chemical  is developing the materials for lithium ion secondary bat- teries and fuel cells, which will be used mainly in automo- biles.      We have already commercialized our heat-resistant  separator for lithium ion secondary batteries, which has  won the praise of customers, and have begun studying  commercial production of our cathode material, following  the mass production of our heat-resistant separator, which  has won the praise of customers. The development of  electrolyte solutions has also started at one of our Group  companies. We are thus seeking to supply general materi- More Energy-Ef cient TV and  Lighting Equipment Cobalt-Free Cathode Material Cathode materials are a major determinant of the performance  of lithium ion secondary batteries. Sumitomo Chemicals innova- tive cathode material is made without using cobalt, a rare metal  that is in short supply  worldwide. Moreover,  compared with conven- tional cathode materials  that contain cobalt, our  product has achieved a  higher output in batter- ies of the same capac- ity. Sumitomo Chemicals next generation technologies  [Keyword] Sumitomo Chemicals next generation technologies  [Keyword] Feature 2  Sumitomo Chemicals Next-Generation Technologies to Meet the Challenge of Climate Change 1 Organic Thin Film Solar Cell Organic thin film solar cells are next-generation solar cells made  using organic photoelectric conversion materials. Compared  with conventional silicon-based solar cells, these cells are thin- ner, lighter, and more flexible, and also require less energy for  manufacture and installation. The  organic thin film photoelectric  conversion materials that Sumito- mo Chemical is now developing  have achieved some of the high- est energy conversion efficiency  in the industry, and we are now  engaged in R&D for the practical  use of these materials and related  technologies within several years. 2 
11 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 als by promoting R&D.      In the area of fuel cells, we are developing a polymer  electrolyte membrane, which is one of the main compo- nents of fuel cells. We are developing a hydrocarbon poly- mer electrolyte membrane which is more enviromentally  friendly, and are now working to achieve higher perfor- mance. Plant Growth Regulators  (Stress-Resistance Inducing Compound)      High temperatures, dryness, and salinity levels are ex- amples of environmental stress, which hinders the growth  of green plants. Sumitomo Chemical is focusing efforts on  the development of plant growth regulators that increase  resistance to such environmental stress. These regulators  are expected to help prevent a decrease in crop yields  due to climate change.      In addition to developing technologies for reduction of  CO2 emissions, Sumitomo Chemical has been develop- ing next-generation technologies to deal with the impact  of climate change on agriculture, capitalizing on its R&D  strengths in the area of agrochemicals—strengths that the  Company has cultivated since its foundation.      Sumitomo Chemical is continually seeking to further  develop its current cutting-edge technologies in order to  remain a company that contributes to society and peo- ples quality of life as well as helping to address the issue  of climate change. Non-CO2-Emitting Vehicles Climate Change-Resistant Crops Crop Stress Management Crop stress management is designed to mitigate the effects of  environmental stress—such as global warming, desertification,  harmful insects, and diseases—on agricultural products, and  thereby increase agri- cultural yields. It is at- tracting attention as a  means to help redress  projected food short- ages resulting from an  increase in the global  population. Sumitomo Chemicals next generation technologies  [Keyword] 3 
12 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Pursuing Harmony with the Public Interest Based on Sumitomos Traditional Business Principles      Sumitomo Chemicals corporate philosophy is con- tained in Sumitomos Business Principles, Sumitomo  Chemicals Business Philosophy, our Corporate Slogan  and Statement, and the Sumitomo Chemical Charter for  Business Conduct.      Sumitomos Business Principles set forth the funda- mental philosophy of Sumitomo Chemical, which is to  meet the expectations of society and not to be blinded by  the temptation of short-term profits. The Company also  follows the unwritten principle of harmony between the  individual, the nation and society, an imperative by which  the Company seeks to bene t not only its own business  but also both the nation and society, attributing great im- portance to maintaining harmony between its interests  and those of the public.      Sumitomo Chemicals Business Philosophy outlines the  Companys basic management principles, missions, and  values based on Sumitomos Business Principles.      The Corporate Slogan and Statement are intended to  help instill pride and commitment among employees,  and the Sumitomo Chemical Charter for Business Con- duct provides the basis for the Companys compliance  system and also constitutes the guidelines to be followed  by individual employees in performing their duties. Sumitomos Business Principles Sumitomo Chemicals Business Philosophy Pledge 1 Sumitomo shall achieve prosperity based  on solid foundation by placing prime im- portance on integrity and sound manage- ment in the conduct of its business. Pledge 2 Sumitomos business interest must al- ways be in harmony with public interest;  Sumitomo shall adapt to good times and  bad times but will not pursue immoral  business. We commit ourselves to creating  new value by building on innova- tion. We work to contribute to society  through our business activities. We develop a vibrant corporate cul- ture and continue to be a company  that society can trust. Sumitomo Chemicals Corporate Philosophy Sumitomo Chemical dates back to the House of Sumitomo, a business with a history spanning more than three centuries.  The fundamental principles of the House of Sumitomo are upheld from its founding to this day. 1. 2. 3. 
13 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Corporate Slogan Creative Hybrid Chemistry  For a Better Tomorrow Corporate Statement      Sumitomo Chemical started business in 1913 as a  producer of fertilizers from sulfur dioxide gas emitted by  copper smelters. Th is business, which solved the environ- mental problem of air pollution while meeting the social  demand for more agricultural production, embodied  the business philosophy of the Sumitomo family handed  down from the 17th century.      Our business must benefi t society, not just our inter- ests. Th roughout our history of almost a century, we at  Sumitomo Chemical have lived by this credo. We have  worked to build better lives by developing various busi- nesses that meet peoples evolving needs. At the same  time, we have continuously delivered technological inno- vation while paying special attention to product quality,  safety, and the environment.      Looking to the future, we will create new value beyond  the boundaries of chemistry by combining a variety of  ideas, views, and technologies. We will also continue to  take up the challenges facing the globe, from meeting  basic needs, to protecting the environment, to addressing  the issues of adequate supplies of food, energy, and other  resources.      In this endeavor, each of us at Sumitomo Chemical will  work together to enhance our capabilities, explore new  possibilities every day, and overcome the challenges lying  ahead with enthusiasm and a strong sense of mission. Sumitomo Chemical will seek to continue to build trust  and bring joy to people across the world through con- stant innovation. We will respect Sumitomos business philosophy and  act as highly esteemed good citizens. We will observe laws and regulations, both at home  and abroad, and will carry out activities in accordance  with our corporate rules. We will develop and supply useful and safe products  and technologies that will contribute signifi cantly to  the progress of society. We will engage in voluntary and active initiatives to  achieve zero-accident and zero-injury operations and  preserve the global environment. We will conduct business transactions based on fair  and free competition. We will endeavor to make our workplaces sound and  energetic. Every one of us will strive to become a professional  and achieve advanced skills and expertise in our fi eld  of responsibility. We will actively communicate with our various stake- holders, including shareholders, customers, and local  communities. As a corporate member of an international society, we  will respect the culture and customs of every region of  the world and contribute to the development of those  regions. We will strive for the continued development of our  Company through business activities conducted in ac- cordance with the guiding principles described herein. Sumitomo Chemical Charter for Business Conduct Sumitomo Chemicals Corporate Philosophy 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 
14 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Products  useful to society Environmentally  friendly and safe  products High-quality  products High-value-added  products Society Responsible Care Economy Sustainable Chemistry CS R M a n ag e m e nt Society Benefiting users, local communi- ties, and the world while abiding  by the rules of society Responsible Care  (safety, environment, health,  product quality) Eliminating accidents and disasters, protect- ing the environment by most effectively  using natural resources and energy, produc- ing safe products, and protecting the health  of customers and employees Economy Maximizing corporate value by  continually providing better prod- ucts Sustainable Chemistry Sumitomo Chemical will contribute to the sustainable development of society based on its proven technologies.  Sustainable Chemistry represents the concept of continuously providing useful prod- ucts and services in an environmentally and socially friendly manner by exploiting the full  potential of chemistry. Sumitomo Chemical will practice Sustainable Chemistry built on its CSR-based man- agement to achieve balance among the three areas of economy, responsible care (RC),  and society in all aspect of its business. Contributing to the Sustainable Development of Society Sumitomo Chemical contributes to the sustainable development of society  through Sustainable Chemistry built on its CSR-based management. 
15 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Sustainable Chemistry      The chemical industry plays an essential role in soci- ety: it helps better peoples lives by delivering a variety of  products related to the basic necessities of food, clothing  and housing, and supplies materials to a wide spectrum of  industries, including the automotive, home appliance, IT,  electronics, and medical industries. The chemical industry  has contributed to the development of various industries  and society through technological innovation.      At present, we are facing a variety of global problems,  especially with regard to energy, resources, and the envi- ronment, and the chemical industry is expected to play an  even greater role than ever in solving these problems.      Sumitomo Chemical, as a member of the chemical  industry, has de ned its corporate mission as the achieve- ment of Sustainable Chemistry. To ful ll this mission, we  are providing useful, high-quality and high-value-added  products to society while giving due consideration to en- ergy and resource conservation as well as to safety and  the environment. Creative Hybrid Chemistry     In order to practice Sustainable Chemistry, it is neces- sary to have scienti cally proven technologies. Sumitomo  Chemical is pursuing Creative Hybrid Chemistry, which  links and combines technologies, know-how, and the  ideas and different perspectives of individuals both inside  and outside the company to create new value beyond ex- isting frameworks.      Sumitomo Chemical has been accumulating a variety  of base technologies in organic synthesis, inorganic  synthesis, polymer synthesis, physical analysis, toxicolog- ical safety assessment, genomic development, process  development, materials and plant engineering technol- ogy, and others through extensive research activities over  many years. In addition, through the development of vari- ous products, we have expanded our core technologies,  namely advanced polymer processing, functional dyes  and pigments, crystal structure control, calcinations, func- tional polymer design, biotechnology, chiral synthesis, and  catalysts.      Sumitomo Chemical combines these base technolo- gies and core technologies in diverse ways to develop  greater breadth and depth in its own unique technologies.  Furthermore, the Company promotes industry-govern- ment-university collaboration through joint projects with  the New Energy and Industrial Technology Development  Organization (NEDO), the Japan Agency for Marine-Earth  Science and Technology, the Japan Synchrotron Radiation  Research Institute, the University of Tokyo, and Tokyo In- stitute of Technology. This collaboration is driving the de- velopment of innovative new technologies and products. Sustainable Chemistry Eight  Core  Technologies Polymer LEDs Proton conduction  membrane Heat-resistant separator Optical functional films Pharmaceutical  intermediates Pyrethroids New type polyolefins Hydrochloric acid oxidation Caprolactam Beckmann  rearrangement Propylene Oxide-Only Process Agricultural and public  hygiene products Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Color filters Functional  inorganic materials Li-ion secondary  battery materials MO EPI wafers Catalysts Biotechnology Chiral  synthesis Calcination  Crystal  structure  control Functional  dyes and  pigments Advanced  polymer  processing Functional  polymer  design Base Technologies Polymer synthesis Physical analysis Inorganic synthesis Organic synthesis Toxicological safety assessment Genomics Material & plant engineering technology Process development Creative Hybrid Chemistry  Creation of  Creation of  new value new value Enhancement of base technologies Increasing breadth and depth of core technologies Integration of disparate technologies 
16 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Green Processes and Clean Products Sumitomo Chemical is committed to developing environmentally friendly products and processes.      We need to use energy and resources,  which are in limited supply, to manufacture  chemical products. In the production pro- cess, unneeded substances (byproducts)  or waste may also be generated. Sumitomo  Chemical is pursuing Green Processes,  which minimize the environmental impact of  manufacturing to the greatest extent pos- sible, and developing Clean Products, which  are safer, more environmentally friendly, and  of higher quality. The polylactic acid-based plastic developed by  Sumitomo Chemical is the worlds first eco-friendly  plastic to find applications in automobile parts. The  eco-friendly plastic, a polymer alloy of polypropyl- ene with 25% or more of plant-based polylactic  acid, has sufficient rigidity, impact resistance  strength, and heat resistance for use in automobile  interiors. By using this plastic, total life cycle CO2  emissions can be reduced by approximately 10%  compared with conventional polypropylene.  Caprolactam (Beckmann Rearrangement) Proces In the caprolactam (Beckmann rearrangement)  process, caprolactam can be manufactured without  producing the byproduct ammonium sulfate. This  process also allows for a significant reduction in the  amount of raw  materials used as  well as a short- ened manufac- turing process. In  addition, it uses  a safer catalyst. Proprietary Propylene Oxide-Only Process (PO-Only Process) In the propylene oxide-only process, propylene oxide can be  manufactured without byproducts by recycling cumene. Fur- thermore, this process helps conserve energy and resources by  the effective use of the heat  generated by reactions, and  produces less wastewater. In  addition, the facilities used  for the process are more  compact than those used  for conventional processes,  enabling high cost competi- tiveness. Minimization Minimization Factories Green Processes Energy conservation Resource conservation Higher recyclability Lower environmental impact Research & development Energy (Electricity, gas, fuels, etc.) Resources (Water, materials, etc.) Areas in which our polylactic plastic is  presently used Areas in which our polylactic plastic is  expected to be used Developing new products  and processes Polylactic Acid-Based Eco-Friendly Plastic 
17 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Green Processes and Clean Products Materials for the Manufacture of LEDs The use of light-emitting diodes (LEDs) is highly effective  for CO2 emissions reduction, and therefore demand for  LEDs for use in TVs and long-life lights has been rapidly ex- panding. Sumitomo Chemical supplies the materials indis- pensable for the manufacture of LEDs. These include high  purity alumina for the sapphire substrates of LED elements,  metalorganics for semiconductor thin film formation, and  aluminum hydroxide and alumina powder, which are used to  disperse the heat released from the light-emitting compo- nent. Sumi x HF (Environmentally Friendly Reactive Dye) With its high level of affinity for fibers and good dyeing  reactivity, Sumifix HF enables us to achieve high fixa- tion rates with less inorganic salt and to significantly  reduce the impact of discharged wastewater on the  environment. In addition, on a molecular basis, the un- fixed dyes of Sumifix  HF are designed so  that their function is  reduced after dyeing,  shortening the washing  process and reducing  energy consumption. Super Engineering Plastics Super engineering plastics are plastics with considerably  higher thermostability than typical engineering plastics.  Sumitomo Chemicals super engineering plastics, Sumika  Super LCP and Sumika Excel PES, are used in various  fields—from electronics and electrical parts to automobiles  and aircraft. Sumitomo Chemicals super engineering plas- tics, free from flame retardants, have cleared top-level fire- retardant standards.  They have also been  evaluated as an excel- lent material in terms  of environmental pro- tection, because they  can also be used for  lead-free soldering. Pluto MC Pluto MC is an insecticide for use only in the control of mul- berry scale, a serious insect pest, on tea plants. With only  one winter application to the crop, this  product will provide effective long-term  control of mulberry scale. This allows  tea growers to reduce the frequency of  insecticide spraying and eliminates the  need for spraying during the busy sum- mer season. Furthermore, this product  has little adverse impact on natural  enemies of this pest, such as parasitic  wasps, making it also suitable for inte- grated pest management (IPM). Hydrochloric Acid Oxidation Process In the hydrochloric acid oxidation process, hy- drochloric acid generated as a byproduct in the  manufacture of chemical products is recycled  through conversion to chlorine using a catalyst and  oxygen. This process is considerably more energy- efficient than  conventional  processes. Appropriate disposal of waste Products Chemicals, resins, rubber,  pharmaceuticals, agrochem- icals, IT materials, automo- tive materials, materials for  synthetic fibers, etc. Clean Products User companies Products Clean Products Creating new value  through highly func- tional materials (Joint research and  development, etc.)  Waste treatment facilities (Inside and outside  the company) Waste Wastewater Waste gas Solid waste To reduce environmen- tal impact to zero 
18 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 CSR and Compliance Promotion System Sumitomo Chemical is further improving its CSR and compliance system in order to continue to ful ll its CSR  and maintain the trust of society. CSR History from the Foundation of the Company      Sumitomo Chemicals business dates back to 1913,  when the Company sought to solve the problem of sulfur  dioxide emissions from smelting operations at the Besshi  Copper Mine in the Shikoku region of Japan. The Com- pany got its start producing sulfuric acid and calcium su- per phosphate fertilizers using the emitted sulfur dioxide.  This not only solved environmental problems by curbing  the emission of pollutants, but also helped increase crop  yields through the provision of useful fertilizers.      Since then, we have laid out and implemented policies  in the areas of safety, the environment, product quality,  risk management, and business conduct to ensure that  we ful ll our responsibilities as a member of society. Basic CSR Policy      Sumitomo Chemical established its Basic CSR Policy  in November 2004 based on Sumitomos Business Prin- ciples and the Sumitomo Chemical Charter for Business  Conduct. Under the Policy, speci c goals are set and CSR  activities are implemented to achieve them. Subsequently,  in January 2010, we established our CSR Department,  which is devoted to the further enhancement and develop- ment of our CSR initiatives. Basic CSR Policy      By continuously creating and providing useful new  technologies and products that have never before existed,  Sumitomo Chemical will increase corporate value while  contributing to both the solution of problems facing our  environment and society, and the betterment of peoples  lives.      In order to achieve this, the Company will work to  achieve a balance between profitable business opera- tions, safety, preservation of the environment, and  product quality as well as social action. In addition, we  will actively pursue and promote our CSR activities with  consideration for the interests of all our stakeholders, in- cluding our shareholders, employees, business partners,  and the local residents of all regions in which we conduct  business. Th rough our endeavors in these areas, we hope  to play a signifi cant role in building a sustainable society,  while continuing to grow to realize our goal of becoming  a truly global chemical company in the 21st century. CSR Milestones 1913 1966 1974 1979 1994 1995 1997 1998 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2007 2008 2009 2010 Company founded. Sumitomos Business Principles established. Pricing committee formed. Environment and safety committee formed. Corporate Policy on Product Quality, Safety and the Environment established. Policy for Responsible Care Activities established. Our Code of Conduct established. Environment, Health and Safety Report first published. Improved compliance with the Antimonopoly Act of Japan. Risk crisis management committee formed. Sumitomo Chemical Charter for Business Conduct established. Compliance system enhanced. CSR Report first published. Basic CSR Policy established. Participation in Global Compact Internal control committee established. Corporate Slogan and Statement created. Sumitomo Chemicals Business Philosophy formulated. CSR Department established. Energy & Climate Change Office established. 
19 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 CSR and Compliance Promotion System CSR Promotion System      Sumitomo Chemical has established a company-wide  CSR Promotion Coordinating Board to promote CSR activi- ties. The CSR Promotion Coordinating Board, consisting  of members from each Business Sector, Works, and other  sites, communicates and coordinates CSR-related activities  and compiles company-wide CSR implementation plans.  The CSR Department serves as the Boards secretariat.      In March 2010, the CSR Promotion Coordinating Board  convened and determined priority tasks for initiatives in   scal 2010 based on the Basic CSR Policy. Each Business  Sector, Research Laboratory, and Works, and other sites  set specific targets in line with the priority tasks, and are  implementing their CSR activities accordingly.      These activities are described in this CSR Report. Promoting Compliance      The Sumitomo Chemical Group promotes compliance- oriented management with the firm belief that ensuring  legal and ethical compliance is the linchpin of corporate  management and that we must neither violate the rules  nor ethics of society as we carry out business activities all  CSR Promotion Coordinating Board CSR Department  (Secretariat) CSR Promotion Coordinating Board Organization Compliance Committee Organization over the world. In order to sustain and enhance societys  trust and con dence in our compliance-oriented manage- ment, we have established common guidelines for business  conduct to be followed by all companies of the Group. Em- ployees, of cers and Board members of the companies are  required to fully familiarize themselves with the guidelines.  We regularly review the guidelines and update them when  necessary.      Fully determined to achieve compliance-oriented man- agement from an impartial and objective perspective, we  have a dedicated organization, the Compliance Committee,  which operates independently from our business units. The  Secretariat Office of the Committee, composed of mem- bers from various corporate departments of the Company  (as shown in the chart below), supports the Committee in  performing its activities.      As part of our day-to-day efforts on promoting compli- ance, we appoint departmental managers and those in  higher positions as Compliance Supervisors, persons in  charge of ensuring compliance in respective workplaces to  prevent unlawful or unethical conduct or improve conduct  in our daily operations from a compliance viewpoint. In ad- dition, various internal systems are available to reinforce  the compliance-related activities of each workplace, such  as compliance auditing by a specialized department, the  Speak-Up System (by which employees can inform the  Compliance Committee or designated external lawyers of  incidents violating compliance) and compliance educa- tional and training programs. (For details, see pages 29 to  31.) CSR Promotion Coordinating Board meeting held in March 2010 Chairman Members Vice Chairman Secretariat for the Compliance Committee General Affairs, Legal, and Human Resources Depts.,  RC Office, and Internal Control & Audit Dept. Basic Chemicals Sector Petrochemicals & Plastics Sector Fine Chemicals Sector IT-related Chemicals Sector Agricultural Chemicals Sector  Corporate Depts. Works, Research Labs., etc. 
20 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Achievements in Fiscal 2009 and  Initiatives for Fiscal 2010 CSR promotion system CSR Promotion Coordinating Board Compliance promotion Working group on the 10th principle (anti-corruption) Social contribution activities at each site Global social contribution activities such  as support to Africa Communication with stakeholders Responsible procurement Expansion of childcare support measures Supporting employees in conducting social con- tribution activities and participating in public life Promoting health management by employees Maintaining a diverse workforce Social contribution activities with the  participation of employees Human resource development Environmental management Global environmental protection Establishment of a recycling-based society Protection of the living environment and  prevention of damage to health Occupational health and safety Industrial safety and disaster prevention Chemical safety Audit Quality assurance Three-Year Corporate Business Plan CSR promotion  Compliance UN Global Compact Hand in hand with  local communities  and society Hand in hand with  business partners Hand in hand with  employees Environmental  protection Safety Auditing Quality assurance Three-Year Corporate Business Plan General Social  activities Responsible  Care (RC)  activities Economic  activities Key CSR initiatives in  scal 2009 Instilling and enhancing the CSR Mindset Conducting balanced social contribution  activities Promoting dialogue with internal and exter- nal stakeholders Enhancing responsible procurement Endeavoring to achieve the annual RC tar- gets set for  scal 2009 Strengthening initiatives against global  warming (including social activities) Endeavoring to further improve performance  in a challenging business climate Item 
21 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Achievements in Fiscal 2009 and Initiatives for Fiscal 2010 Major achievements Newly established the CSR Department. Convened the CSR Promotion Coordinating Board. Held a meeting of the Compliance Committee. Improved the compliance promotion systems of Group companies (80% progress) and their operation. Provided training on the Antimonopoly Act (20 times in total with the participation of about 1,000) Conducted a questionnaire survey on employees compliance awareness (with 775 respondents). Participated in the creation of a Guide for Customers and Suppliers. Conducted local cleanup activities. Conducted activities to support educational programs for children, including School Science Visits. Organized and sponsored community sports events. Supported malaria prevention by donating Olyset Nets. Supported education in Africa. Conducted Sumitomo Chemicals forest tree-planting activities. Held local RC dialogues. Started the self-check initiative through use of the Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Check Sheets mainly targeting new business partners. Introduced and made proposals on the use of the Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Check Sheets to Group companies in Japan. Exchanged information with employees in charge of responsible procurement at other companies in the same industry. Opened a childcare facility at the Chiba Works. Improved the working environment for participants in the citizen judge system. Number of employees taking volunteer leave: 16 (from April 2008 to the end of March 2010) Provided new employees and employees promoted to higher grades with mental health training. Introduced a rehabilitation work system, and seven persons returned to work using this system. Continuously conducted health checkups and guidance for lifestyle-related diseases. Female employment rate: 22.4% (up 3.3% from the previous  scal year) Female manager rate: 4.8% (up 0.2% from the previous  scal year) Employment rate of people with disabilities: 2.01% (up 0.06% from the previous  scal year) Reemployment: 116 of 176 retirees were reemployed. (Reemployment rate: 65.9%, up 13.2% from the previous  scal year) Cooperated with the TABLE FOR TWO program. Implemented the Matching Gift program. Distributed copies of the workplace management guidebook to section managers and above. Launched new training rotation system and formulated rotation plans for 898 employees. Achieved certain results relating to items in the Eco First commitment made to the Minister of the Environment. Performed risk assessment to formulate medium- to long-term reduction targets for PRTR substances and VOCs. Conducted follow-up activities to achieve the Groups environmental protection management targets. Conducted studies of environmental impact assessment methods for the introduction of an environmental ef ciency indicator for the Group. Implemented material  ow cost accounting on a trial basis and evaluated the results. Reduced per-unit CO2 emissions from the use of fossil fuels by 5.7% from the previous  scal year (a 21.6% reduction from the  scal 1990 level). Implemented the plan to completely eliminate the use of freezers with CFC coolants, with no coolant leakage. Reduced per-unit energy consumption by 6.3% from the previous  scal year (a 17.4% reduction from the  scal 1990 level). Reduced the amount of industrial waste desposed of in land lls by 3.9% from the previous  scal year (a 83.3% reduction from the  scal 1990 level). Continued to study speci c measures to cease the sea dumping of red bauxite Reduced per-unit water use by 27.3% from the  scal 1990 level. Reduced the total release of PRTR substances (into the air and water) by 61.6% from the 2002 level. Employees: Frequency rate of lost-workday injuries: 0.16/Severity rate of lost-workday injuries: 0.006 Contractors/af liate companies: Frequency rate of lost-workday injuries: 0.29/Severity rate of lost-workday injuries: 0.012 Serious industrial accidents: two Promoted the operation of the comprehensive chemical management systems (SuCCESS) Increased the number of RC auditors and improved ef ciency to respond to an increase in the frequency of RC audits. Achieved zero serious quality problems. Determined a new evaluation method for quality risks. Disseminated the concept of quality engineering throughout the company. Final pro t increased by 73.9 billion yen from the previous year, returning the Company to pro tability. The Rabigh Project started operation within the designated timeframe. Undertook measures for further growth,  including investments to acquire a US pharmaceutical company and to conduct R&D in PLED technology. Key CSR initiatives for  scal 2010 Improve the corporate brand  value through better CSR  activities. Continue to engage in social  activities integrated with  business activities. Deepen communication with  internal and external stake- holders. Proactively promote  climate change prevention  and energy strategies. Raise the level of the  Sumitomo Chemical Groups  RC activities around the  world. Achieve the  rst-year  targets of the Three-Year  Corporate Business Plan. Ref. page p.18 p.19 p.29 p.29 p.30-31 p.30 p.31 p.32 p.33 p.33 p.4-7 p.6-7 p.23 p.37 p.38 p.39 p.39 p.22 p.41 p.41 p.42 p.42 p.42 p.43 p.43 p.43 p.43 p.43 p.44 p.45 p.45 p.46 p.58 p.59 p.59 p.59 p.60 p.62 p.60 p.62-63 p.63 p.62 p.62 p.64 p.64 p.65 p.68-69 p.70 p.71 p.72 p.72 p.77 p.78 
22 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 CSR Highlights 2009 (Social Contribution Activities)      Sumitomo Chemical has been enhancing measures  and systems for helping employees achieve and maintain a  good work-life balance, including shortening working hours  and supporting employees caring for children or other rela- tives. Due to the decreasing birth rate, which is becoming a  signi cant social concern in this day and age, it is more im- portant than ever that companies provide employees with  working conditions that allow them to continue working  while raising their children. Therefore, in addition to such  systems as childcare leave and shortened working hours,  Sumitomo Chemical is also promoting the establishment of  in-house childcare facilities to assist employees with chil- dren.      In October 2009, we opened an in-house childcare  facility called Sumika Kids Chiba on the premises of the  Company-owned employee housing located near the Pet- rochemicals Research Laboratory at the Chiba Works. Su- mika Kids Chiba takes care of infants less than a year old  (whose mothers have  nished postpartum childcare leave)  to preschool-aged children of Sumitomo Chemical Group  employees during working hours, with extended care till  eight oclock at night. The facility has a grassy area and  a vegetable  eld where children can learn about growing  vegetables, ensuring the well-rounded development of the  children.      Sumika Kids Chiba is the third in-house child- care facility, following the establishment of Sumika  Kids Ehime in Ehime and Izumi Kids in Osaka in  April 2008. As of April 1, 2010, 37, 14, and 19 chil- dren are regularly taken care of at the Ehime, Osa- ka, and Chiba facilities respectively. The facility in  Osaka also accepts children of local residents not  employed by the Group.      In August 2010, the Company opened its fourth  childcare facility, Sumika Kids Tokyo, on the first   oor of its Tokyo head of ce.      Sumitomo Chemical will work to make further  improvements to the workplace environment to en- able employees to work with even more peace of  mind. Opening Sumika Kids Chiba,  an In-house Childcare Facility Sumika Kids Chiba Growing vegetables at Sumika Kids Chiba Sumika Kids Tokyo opened in August 2010 
23 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010      To help prevent global warming and conserve biodiver- sity, Sumitomo Chemical has been conducting a mangrove  planting project in cooperation with OISCA in Thailands Ra- nong Province since  scal 2008.      Many mangrove trees were felled in Thailand to provide  land for shrimp cultivation and charcoal production, and as a  result the forest area has decreased substantially. Mangrove  trees are said to be especially effective in the prevention of  global warming because they have a high capacity to take in  and  x CO2. These trees also help mitigate tsunami damage  and conserve biodiversity. Their disappearance would have  a serious negative impact on the lives of local people.      The projects aim is to plant mangrove trees in order to  recover a rich forest that was devastated by destructive  felling. It is being fostered through cooperation between  the Thai government, local residents, OISCA, and Sumi- tomo Chemical. Sumitomo Chemical provides funding for  the project in the form of donations made by directors and  employees of the Sumitomo Chemical Group, matching the  amounts under the Matching Gift program, which is promot- ed in cooperation with the Companys labor union (p. 44).      The area for which the Company is providing support as  of March 2010 consists of about 125,000 mangrove trees  over 50 hectares and is managed as Sumitomo Chemicals  forest. In February 2009, Sumitomo Chemical employees  visited the area and worked as volunteer tree-planters and  in February 2010, the Company sent a delegation to inspect  the growth of the trees in the forest. Support to the Victims of the  Major Earthquake in Haiti  Donating Olyset Nets       To support the victims of the major earthquake that  struck the Republic of Haiti on January 12, 2010, Sumitomo  Chemical donated Olyset Net insecticidal mosquito nets  via a US NGO and the UN Secretariat.      Approximately 3.7 million people fell victim to the earth- quake, and at least 1  million of those have  lost their houses and  been forced to live  as refugees in tents.      As the Republic  of Haiti is in a ma- laria-prone region,  Sumitomo Chemical  donated 5,000 Olyset Nets to local victims through a US  NGO called Population Services International (PSI) as well  as to UN peacekeeping staff engaged in support activities  in Haiti. PSI distributed the mosquito nets to refugee camps  across the country in cooperation with local volunteer orga- nizations. Initiative by a Group Company Sumika Electronic Materials (Shanghai) and  Sumika Electronic Materials Trading (Shanghai) Giving Support to Local Schools      Two Group companies in Shanghai have been donating  funds to schools in nearby poor districts in cooperation with  their labor unions. The donations are made by both employ- ees and the companies themselves.      In fiscal 2009, they provided support to an elementary  school in Huoqiu County, Anhui Province, helping the school  refurbish its classrooms and open a library as well as donat- ing furnishings, supplies, and books to the school. At the do- nation ceremony held on October 30, 2009, representatives  from the companies made friends with the students, who  expressed their excitement about the new classrooms and  donated items.  Sumitomo Chemicals Forest in Ranong  Province, Thailand Planting trees with local residents  (delegation sent in February 2010) 
24 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 CSR Highlights 2009  (Responsible Care Activities) Submitting a Follow-up Report for  the Eco-First Program      Sumitomo Chemical became the  rst diversi ed chemi- cal company to be certi ed as an Eco-First company by the  Japanese Ministry of the Environment in November 2008. In  February 2010, we submitted a follow-up report to the Min- ister on the progress in implementing the initiatives we had  committed to and the results.      The Eco-First program was launched by the Ministry of  the Environment in April 2008 with a view to encouraging  leading companies in each industry to undertake more en- vironmental activities. Under the program, companies make  Eco-First commitments to the Minister of the Environment.  Speci cally, they promise to implement advanced measures  for global environmental protection, including measures for  the management of chemical substances and the preven- tion of global warming.      Sumitomo Chemical reported to the Minister that it was  making very favorable progress on seven out of the 11  items, including Reviewing safety information for chemicals  and conducting risk assessments and Voluntarily inspect- ing the safety of HPV chemicals and conducting LRI activi- ties to study the impact of chemicals on human health and  the environment      As a leading company in the chemical industry and a  member of the global community, Sumitomo Chemical will  continue to ful ll its Eco-First commitments for a better fu- ture and the sustainable development of society. (For an out- line of the progress on the 11 items, see pages 46 and 47.) Sakihito Ozawa (left), Minister of the Environment, and  President Hirose of Sumitomo Chemical Follow-up Report Submitted to the Ministry of the  Environment (February 2010) On the day, a total of six companies submitted reports,  including Sumitomo Chemical *PRTR System to identify, collect, and disseminate data on the sources from which hazardous chemical substances  were released into the environment or transferred as waste Progress in fulfi lling Eco-First commitments Management of chemical  substances and promotion of  risk communication Preventing global warming Creating a recycling-based  society Reviewing safety information for chemicals and carrying out risk assessments Voluntarily inspecting the safety of HPV chemicals and conducting long-range research  (LRI) to study the impact of chemicals on human health and the environment Reducing the release of substances subject to the PRTR* Act into the air and water Disclosing information and communicating risks Improving unit energy consumption (at all Works) Reducing unit CO2 emissions from the captive consumption of fossil fuels (at all Works) Implementing an innovative low-temperature heat recovery project (at petrochemical plants) Improving unit energy consumption (in the logistics divisions) Reducing CO2 emissions from households in cooperation with the labor union to prevent  global warming Reducing the generation of industrial waste and land ll Achieving zero waste emissions at all Works            Category Achievement  Status Very favorable Generally favorable Further studies needed 
25 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Energy- and Climate Change-Related Initiatives  at the ICCA      The International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA)  established the Energy & Climate Change Leadership Group  in 2007 in response to a proposal made by Japan. Since  then, led by this country, the United States, and Europe,  the group has been holding regular discussions on what  measures the chemical industry should take to contribute to  solving the problem of global climate change. Mr. Yonekura  and Mr. Kawachi, Chairman and Senior Advisor respectively  of Sumitomo Chemical, served as the  rst leader and chair- man of this group, and the group has been achieving excel- lent results with the Japan Chemical Industry Association  (JCIA), including Sumitomo Chemical, playing a leading role.      Speci cally, the group focuses its activities on (1) policy,  (2) establishing a common energy ef ciency evaluation indi- cator based on benchmarking, (3) quantifying contributions  made to reductions in greenhouse gas emissions by the  chemical industry through carbon life cycle analysis (cLCA),  and (4) public relations.      With regard to cLCA initiatives, the group published a  report titled Innovations for Greenhouse Gas Reductions  to predict the in uence of the chemical industry over global  greenhouse gas emission reductions, and the ICCA pre- sented the report worldwide in Japan, the United States,  and the EU in July 2009. This report shows quantitatively  and objectively that, though the global chemical industry  emits vast amounts of greenhouse gases from its produc- tion activities, it has made great contributions to reducing  global greenhouse gas emissions through the use of insula- tors, solar power generation materials, and other products it  provides.      The chemical industry will utilize these findings and  analysis data effectively for the good of nations, industries,  and peoples daily lives and make even greater contributions  to more ef cient and effective measures to combat global  warming.  Meeting of the ICCA Energy & Climate Change Leadership Group (In Horgen, Switzerland in January 2010) 33 69 207 36 157 Emissions Contributions*2 Net reduction  (= Contributions           – emissions) Total 1 : 2.1 1 : 2.7 1 : 4.2 2005 2030  (with maximum efforts) 2030*1 50 65 173 108 *1. Without any new CO2 emission reduction       measures *2. Reductions achieved for chemical        products throughout their lifecycles Reduction rate 1 : X  Emissions : contributions Source: ICCA greenhouse gas reduction report (2009) Units: CO2-100 million tons 2Results of calculating emissions and contributions The chemical industry is said to consume large amounts of energy,  but the industry as a whole contributes greatly to preventing global  warming through reductions in greenhouse gas emissions achieved by  chemical products throughout their lifecycles. According to the ICCAs  report, CO2 emissions from extraction of materials, production, and  disposal by the chemical industry will double relative to the 2005 level  by 2030, but indirect CO2 emission reductions achieved by chemical  products while they are being used will be 2.7 to 4.2 times greater than  the industrys emissions.  cLCA Method For details, please visit the Japan Chemi- cal Industry Associations website.  http://www.nikkakyo.org/index. php3?sessLang=English Total Emissions  throughout the  lifecycle of  chemical products Extraction Materials and fuels Production Direct and indirect  emissions from energy  use and emissions  from processes Disposal Incineration with or  without recovery of heat,  recycling, and landfill Impact of the Chemical Industry on Greenhouse Gas Emissions 1Emissions Total CO2 emissions during the lifecycles of chemical products (from  the extraction of materials to manufacture, distribution, consumption,  recycling, and disposal) will be analyzed. 
26 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Completion of All the Petro Rabigh  Facilities      Rabigh Refining and Petrochemical Company (Petro  Rabigh), an equally-owned joint venture between Sumi- tomo Chemical and the Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Saudi  Aramco), held a completion ceremony for the Rabigh Proj- ect on November 8, 2009.      The Rabigh Project was started as a project to estab- lish a world-scale  integrated oil refin- ery and petrochem- ical complex (1) by  constructing a high  ole n  uid catalytic  cracker (HOFCC) at  the existing re nery and (2) by constructing a new petro- chemical plant with an ethane cracker for cracking ethane  gas and facilities to produce a variety of derivatives at  Saudi Aramcos oil re nery. The oil re nery, which has a  crude oil processing capacity of 400,000 barrels per day,  is located in Rabigh on Saudi Arabias Red Sea coast.      Petro Rabigh is proceeding with its oil refining and  petrochemical business utilizing a stable supply of highly  competitive feedstocks from Saudi Aramco, and is maxi- mizing economies of scale.      The Rabigh Project is expected to help the growth of  downstream industries and contribute to industrial diversi-  cation and creation of employment opportunities in Saudi  Arabia, thereby helping the country develop its economy  sustainably while contributing to closer relations between  Japan and Saudi Arabia.  Ethane cracker CSR Highlights 2009 (Economic Activities) Corporate Vision Achieve sustainable strong growth as a stronger, more in- novative global company. Help meet pressing global challenges, such as energy and  food security, and contribute to sustainable development of  the global community. Continuously enhance the value of the company. Three-Year Corporate Business Plan for  Fiscal 2010 to 2012      Sumitomo Chemical is currently implementing its Three-      Year Corporate Business Plan for  scal 2010 to 2012.      In formulating this new Corporate Business Plan, the  Company first conceived its Corporate Vision based  on analysis of the long-range prospects for the global  economy and business environment in conjunction with  its portfolio of businesses. The new Corporate Business  Plan is positioned as the first step toward achieving the  Companys Corporate Vision, and under this new plan the  Company is striving to achieve seven goals, including the  prompt improvements in pro t and cash  ow from the ma- jor investments made under the previous Corporate Busi- ness Plan and enhancement of its  nancial strength.      In fiscal 2012, the final year of the plan, we aim to  achieve sales of 2,400 billion yen, operating income of 190  billion yen, ordinary income of 220 billion yen, and net in- come of 140 billion yen. (For details, see pages 78 and 79). Performance Targets Saudi Arabia Rabigh (1) (2) (3) Fiscal 2012 2,400 billion yen 190 billion yen 220 billion yen 140 billion yen Fiscal 2009 1,620.9 billion yen 51.5 billion yen 35 billion yen 14.7 billion yen Sales Operating income Ordinary income Net income 
27 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Establishing Agricultural Corporations to Support Agriculture      In May 2009, Sumitomo Chemical established Sumika  Farm Nagano, an agricultural corporation for growing  strawberries in Nakano City, Nagano Prefecture, and in No- vember, Sumika Farm Oita, an agricultural corporation for  growing tomatoes in Bungo Ohno  City, Oita Prefecture.      The Sumitomo Chemical Group  handles a variety of agricultural products, including pes- ticides, fertilizers, irrigation tubes, and polyolefins for  agricultural use, and Sumika Farm Nagano and Sumika  Farm Oita are producing high-quality crops using these  products. Sumitomo Chemical is committed to its total  solution provider business, which comprehensively sup- ports the ef cient production of safer, healthier agricultural  products. The Company will accumulate cultivation tech- nologies, agricultural management know-how, and various  other skills gained through establishing and managing ag- ricultural corporations, and will spread these technologies  throughout the country in cooperation with agricultural  producers, cooperatives, and local governments to help  revitalize local agriculture. Starting Sales of the  SUMILOOK Edge-Light Type LED Light      Sumitomo Chemical has developed an edge-light type  LED light, and started sales of this product, called SUM- ILOOK, through Sumika Acryl in February 2010.      SUMILOOK has special features, including (1) being gen- tle to the eyes because it has small variations in brightness  and is not dazzling; (2) being very thin (15 mm or thinner),  and (3) reducing power consumption and CO2 emissions  by approximately 20%, thus reducing operating costs while  achieving the same brightness as conventional  uorescent  lights.      SUMILOOK is expected to be used in mainstream light- ing equipment, and we plan to promote sales of this highly  efficient light  first to schools  and of ces and  then further ex- pand our sales  targets. Developing an Aluminum  Titanate DPF      Sumitomo Chemical has developed an aluminum  titanate diesel particulate filter (DPF) that can be at- tached to the muf er of a diesel-powered vehicle. The  aluminum titanate DPF outperforms conventional sili- con carbide (SiC)-based DPFs in several parameters,  including the amount of soot it can continuously  lter.      In Europe, the use of diesel-powered vehicles is be- ing promoted for higher fuel economy and lower CO2  emissions, and in the future DPFs will be attached to  diesel-powered vehicles as standard equipment to  comply with exhaust gas regulations.      Sumitomo Chemical will begin providing samples of  its aluminum titanate DPF to automobile manufactur- ers in 2010 for practical evaluation on actual vehicles,  and once these evaluations have been completed, is  targeting  full-scale  commercial produc- tion by 2015, when  use of DPFs in diesel- powered vehicles are  expected to come  into widespread use  in Europe. Classroom equipped with SUMILOOK Aluminum titanate DPF Harvesting strawberries in a greenhouse at Sumika Farm Nagano 
28 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Corporate Governance      Sumitomo Chemical regards serving the interests of its  various stakeholders, including shareholders, customers,  and employees, amid changing social and economic con- ditions as the very foundation of corporate governance,  and has endeavored to improve its approaches to this  end.      We will continue to implement measures to expedite  important decision-making, more clearly define respon- sibilities in the execution of our business, enhance and  strengthen the compliance system and internal control,  and promote the timely disclosure of information. Management Structure      Sumitomo Chemical has a board of corporate audi- tors and has also introduced an executive of cer system  to expedite important decision making and more clearly  define responsibilities in the execution of our business.  The companys management structure currently consists  of 10 directors and 32 executive of cers (including those  who serve in a dual capacity as directors). The Board of  Directors ensures that important management decisions  are appropriately made in accordance with laws and regu- lations, the Articles of Incorporation and the regulations  concerning the Board, and also monitors and supervises  the performance of the directors. The executive officers  are responsible for ensuring that business operations are  carried out in accordance with the Boards strategic man- agement planning.      There are  ve corporate auditors, three of whom are  from outside the Company (as of July 2010). Internal Control      We consider the continuous development and en- hancement of our internal control system as a neces- sary process in maintaining a sound organization, and  and believe this system should be actively utilized for the  achievement of  business objectives.      We have established the Internal Control Committee,  in accordance with the Basic Policy for Enhancement of  Internal Control formulated in 2006, for the purpose of  building an internal control system to conduct appropriate  business operations throughout the Sumitomo Chemi- cal Group, and to inspect and maintain the system in  response to changing circumstances. This committee is  administered by the Internal Control & Audit Department,  which proposes and promotes various measures for im- proving the internal control system and monitors their  implementation. Internal Auditing      The Internal Control & Audit Department also conducts  internal auditing for the following in the execution of busi- ness duties by executives and employees of the Sumi- tomo Chemical Group: (1) effective and efficient opera- tions; (2) reliability of  nancial reporting; (3) enhancement,  operation, and appropriate functioning of internal control  concerning compliance with relavant laws and statutes in  all business activities; and (4) proper and appropriate ex- ecution of business duties.      In addition, the Internal Audit Committee has been  established to improve the effectiveness and efficiency  of internal audits throughout Sumitomo Chemical and all  Group companies. Information Disclosure System      Sumitomo Chemical is committed to providing its vari- ous stakeholders, including shareholders, business part- ners, and local communities, with information in a prompt,  accurate, and fair manner. Our Corporate Communica- tions Department, established exclusively to engage in  investor relations (IR) and public relations (PR) activities,  promotes timely and appropriate information disclosure  and dialogue with society. Internal Control Committee Board of Corporate Auditors Board of Directors Accounting Auditors Chairman and President General Meeting of Shareholders Internal Control & Audit Dept. Executive Officers Corporate Depts. and Business Sectors (Sumitomo Chemical and domestic and  overseas Group companies) Management Committee Business Execution System Corporate Governance Organization Foundation of CSR-based Management Sumitomo Chemical, as a corporate citizen, will further enhance the foundation of its CSR-based management  to gain the greater trust of people worldwide. 
29 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 TOPIC Compliance The Sumitomo Chemical Groups Compliance Policies      The Sumitomo Chemical Group promotes compliance- oriented management in accordance with the Sumitomo  Chemical Charter for Business Conduct, which outlines  the fundamental standards of conduct to be observed in all  business activities (see page 13), and is based on the firm  belief that legal and ethical compliance constitutes the cor- nerstone of corporate management and that we must never  tolerate violations of social ethics or rules in any aspect of  our business operations. Guidelines for Business Conduct Common to the Entire Group      Each of the Sumitomo Chemical Group companies  in Japan adopts a Business Conduct Manual (written in  Japanese), while those overseas have a Code of Ethics or  documents of the same nature (in English or other local lan- guages). These documents serve as shared guidelines for  business conduct with which all employees, officers and  Board members of the Group companies operating both in  Japan and overseas must fully familiarize themselves with  these guidelines so that we may gain the greater trust and  stronger con dence of society in the compliance-oriented  management of the Group as a whole and of its individual  companies alike.      We regularly review and update the Business Conduct  Manual and the Code of Ethics to re ect the latest changes  in relevant laws and regulations as well as continuing de- velopments in the socioeconomic environment and speci c  business operations of each Group company. In particular,  the Code of Ethics in place at overseas Group companies  is revised and updated in a timely manner with close sup- port from local external specialists such as lawyers, in light  of the vital importance to keep abreast of various changes  evolving in what society requires of business corporations,  including changes in local legal systems. Operation of the Compliance System  by an Independent Organization      Sumitomo Chemical has a Compliance Committee  chaired by one of the executive vice presidents, which is  an organization set up independently of business operating  units, aiming to promote compliance-oriented management  from an impartial and objective perspective. The Compli- ance Committee investigates and supervises the activities  of Sumitomo Chemical and its Group companies for their  proper legal and ethical compliance and advises on im- provement as necessary. The Committee also plans and  provides compliance education programs to help enhance  compliance-oriented management of the Sumitomo Chemi- cal Group. In order to support the Committee in fulfilling  these functions, a Secretariat Office for the Committee,  composed of members from various corporate depart- ments, actually engage in day-to-day compliance activities.      Likewise, the Group companies adopt their own compli- ance systems equivalent to that of Sumitomo Chemical to  ensure their compliance-oriented management. As of April  2010, 80% of the Group companies have completed intro- ducing the systems, and Sumitomo Chemical is continuing  the same efforts  not only on the  remaining Group  companies, but  also as companies  are incorporated or  acquired anew. Sumitomo Chemical is undertaking a variety of concrete initia- tives to assist its Group companies in enhancing their compli- ance systems. As part of these eff orts, the Company provides  Group companies, both domestic and overseas, with specifi c  common criteria for establishing a compliance system, based  on which each of the companies reassess their current compli- ance system and, if necessary, improve the system. Sumitomo  Chemical is thus working closely with each of its Group com- panies in Japan and overseas, not only to establish their re- spective compliance system, but also optimize its operation. Initiative for Enhancing Operation of  Compliance Systems in Group Companies      In addition, we endeavor to build stronger relationships  of trust with society and capital markets by publishing  documentation in accordance with the rules stipulated by  the securities exchanges in Japan, including a corporate  governance report that details the Companys corporate  governance philosophy and system, and noti cation of in- dependent directors and auditors that eliminates con icts  of interest between our general shareholders and outside  directors and auditors. These documents are viewable on  the websites of the Tokyo Stock Exchange and Osaka Se- curities Exchange where Sumitomo Chemical is listed. Corporate Governance/Compliance  Meeting of the Compliance Committee (April 2010) 
30 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 TOPIC We conducted our second survey on employee compliance  awareness in January 2010, utilizing it as on opportunity to  raise awareness of compliance among employees and with  the aim of looking into any potential compliance risks (risk  factors and unidentifi ed problems) at workplaces. The sur- vey targeted 1,000 employees who had been chosen ran- domly, and we received 775 valid responses. According to  the results, employees are highly aware of the inportance of  compliance, but with regard to compliance risk managment  eff orts within each workplace, there may be still room for  inprovement. We will utilize the results in our future educa  tional activities and, more broadly, to enhance our risk man- agement. Second Survey on Employee Compliance Awareness Foundation of CSR-based Management Daily Efforts in the Workplace to Prevent or Correct  Illegal or Unethical Conduct      Sumitomo Chemical considers it fundamental to its  compliance-oriented management to have in place and  maintain mechanisms for effectively preventing or promptly  correcting any illegal or unethical conduct in the day-to-day  business operation. Accordingly, all those employees hold- ing the position of department managers or higher posts  are appointed to serve as Compliance Supervisors for their  individual workplaces. The Compliance Supervisors have  the clear responsibility to make sure that legal and ethical  compliance is always maintained in their workplaces, to  prevent and take corrective action in the event of any ille- gal or unethical conduct having taken place, and to report  such conduct to the Compliance Committee without fail.  If employees uncover illegal or unethical conduct inside or  outside their workplaces, they are required to promptly re- port such conduct through their superiors to a Compliance  Supervisor and the relevant departments.      Along with these efforts, at Sumitomo Chemical, the Re- sponsible Care Committee, the Antitrust Law Compliance  Committee, the Internal Audit Reporting Meeting and other  committees are conducting a host of activities on a daily  basis to ensure compliance in their respective  elds of re- sponsibility. Reinforcing Workplace Initiatives      To support the workplace initiatives mentioned above,  we are working actively in the following manner, expecting  that those activities will restrain illegal or unethical conduct  and at the same time will bring their self-cleansing effects  into play effectively against such conduct. Compliance Auditing System      The Internal Control & Audit Department at Sumitomo  Chemical specializes in internal audits and monitors the  Companys compliance activities from a third-party per- spective. Speci cally, it veri es that initiatives toward com- pliance undertaken by Sumitomo Chemical and its Group  companies in Japan and abroad are appropriate and identi-  es items requiring improvement, thereby further heighten- ing the level of compliance by the entire Group. Speak-Up System (Direct reporting to the Compliance Committee)      Virtually all Sumitomo Chemical Group companies have  adopted their Speak-Up Systems. Under the system, an  employee*1 who has found any illegal or unethical conduct  and believes it cannot be resolved promptly via the ordinary  business reporting route may report such conduct directly  to the Compliance Committee. The Committee Secretariat  Office, or alternatively, designated external lawyers serve  as contacts for this reporting system, and employees may  choose to whom they report the case*2. All information  provided in the reporting is kept strictly confidential, and  the informant incurs no risk of unfair treatment, such as  dismissal, transfer, or discrimination, for reporting such  conduct. The Speak-Up System has been in operation for  several years now, and cases actually reported under the  system at Sumitomo Chemical and domestic or overseas  Group companies have been handled promptly and in good  faith in accordance with the purpose, objectives, and speci-  ed procedures of the system. We will continue our steady  efforts to maintain and improve this reporting system. Other Initiatives for Promoting Day-to-Day Compliance      In addition to the compliance activities conducted in the  course of daily operations as mentioned above, Sumitomo  Chemical and its Group companies provide a variety of  educational and training programs periodically to raise the  level of compliance awareness among employees, of cers  and others, and deepen their understanding of specific  compliance-related issues. In  scal year of 2009, following  the enforcement of the  revised Antimonopoly  Act in Japan in January  2010, a total of 20 train- ing seminars on the Act  were held for approxi- mately 1,000 employ- ees, of cers and others  at Sumitomo Chemical  *1. In the event of any violation of compliance by Sumitomo Chemical personnel,  this system is available also to those people who are involved in any manner in  the activities of the Company, such as the families of the Companys employees,  officers and Board members as well as the Companys affiliates and business  partners. *2.While some of the Group companies currently employ no external lawyers to  serve as the contact for the reporting, they are supposed to retain one as far as  possible in the future. Compliance seminar 
31 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Compliance/UN Global Compact The Global Compacts Ten Principles     In January 2005, Sumitomo Chemical became the  rst  Japanese chemical company to announce its participation  in the UN Global Compact* advocated by then UN Secre- tary-General Ko  Annan. Since then, we have been further  promoting our CSR activities in compliance with the ten  principles of the Global Compact, while networking with  the United Nations and other institutions and reporting on  the status of our efforts in our CSR Report. Contributing to Society through Our Business      Sumitomo Chemical is committed to contributing to the  sustainable development of society as the core of its CSR  and believes it crucial to comply with international norms  and cooperate with international organizations, NGOs,  and other companies in meeting the challenges faced by  society. The Global Compact initiative is fully consistent  with the Companys conceptions.      Sumitomo Chemical conducts all its business activi- ties with due consideration for the principles of the Global  Compact regarding human rights, labor, the environment,  and anti-corruption. Initiative Taken by the Global Compact Working Group on the 10th Principle (Anti-Corruption)      In December 2008, Sumitomo Chemical became the   rst Japanese company to participate in the Global Com- pact Working Group on the 10th Principle (Anti-Corruption).  This working group, which comprises companies, NGOs,  and others with divergent interests, discusses compa- nies needs and their efforts in combatting corruption.  As a member of the task force on supply chains, whose  duty was to prepare a Guide for Customers and Suppli- ers, Sumitomo Chemical prepared parts of the draft. This  guide was completed and announced at the general as- sembly of the Working Group on the 10th Principle held on  June 23, 2010.      As a member of the global community, Sumitomo  Chemical will continue to address the global challenge of  UN Global Compact anti-corruption in cooperation with other organizations. and its Group companies in Japan. Furthermore, we active- ly and continually hold various kinds of seminars, including  those on the basics of compliance as geared to the partici- pants job grades, years of employment or other conditions,  and those handling individual compliance issues, as well as  utilizing external educational resources such as participa- tion in lectures or inviting lecturers from outside the Com- pany.      We are also developing ways and means of sharing in- formation about periodic changes in laws and regulations in  Japan with domestic Group companies for use in their day- to-day operations. For example, we operate an electronic  system by which information on the revision of laws and  other developments related to compliance issues are dis- seminated to the companies automatically via the Internet. *UN Global Compact  The UN Global Compact is a United Nations initiative in which businesses  demonstrate responsible and creative leadership and voluntarily participate in  efforts to establish a worldwide framework that enables them to act as good  corporate citizens and achieve sustainable growth. Businesses should support  and respect the protection of internationally  proclaimed human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in hu- man rights abuses. Businesses should uphold the freedom of as- sociation and the effective recognition of the  right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and  compulsory labour; the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect  of employment and occupation. Businesses should support a precautionary  approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater en- vironmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of  environmentally friendly technologies. Businesses should work against corruption  in all its forms, including extortion and brib- ery. Principle 1:  Principle 2:  Principle 3: Principle 4: Principle 5: Principle 6: Principle 7: Principle 8: Principle 9: Principle 10: Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-Corruption 
Social Activities 32 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Hand in Hand with Local Communities and Society As a member of society, Sumitomo Chemical strives to enhance its relations with local communities and employees. Promotion of Social Action Unique to  Sumitomo Chemical      Sumitomo Chemical undertakes its social contribution  activities with a focus on covering three different areas:  coexistence with local communities, sustainable future- oriented support for society, and responsible business as  a global company.      Sumitomo Chemical has been promoting efforts at  its Head Office and other worksites as well as at Group  companies to (1) ensure safety and health, and protect  the environment; (2) raise children who will lead the next  generation; and (3) assist in natural disaster relief. Contri- butions are categorized into the following three areas: (1)  Community Contribution supporting the communities in  the vicinity of its worksites; (2) Future Contribution building  a world for the next generation; and (3) Global Contribu- tion providing assistance to the international community.  For the Future of Local Communities and Children      Sumitomo Chemical conducts a variety of localized  activities at its worksites for information disclosure and  communication with local residents on a daily basis, and  education of children who will be the next generation of  leaders. We are endeavoring to help local residents deep- en their understanding of our activities and to build and  maintain good relations with them. Tours of Manufacturing and Research Facilities      Sumitomo Chemicals Works and Research Laborato- ries organize tours of their facilities as a way of educating  local children, who will lead the next generation and of  disclosing information to local residents and governments. Community Beauti cation Activities      Sumitomo Chemicals worksites are also conducting  cleanup and beauti cation activities around their premises  and actively participating in community cleanup events. VOICE Social Activities Plant tour  (Osaka Works) Community beauti cation activities (Tokyo head o  ce) As a member of society, Sumitomo Chemical endeavors to build better relations with local residents and  employees, believing that its business must be based on mutual prosperity with society.  The head offi  ce in Tokyo has been engaged in local cleanup  activities in cooperation with neighboring companies since  May 2009, advocating the Clean Day campaign promoted by  Chuo City, Tokyo. Once every two months during lunch time,  employees volunteer to clean up the area surrounding the  Sumitomo Twin Building, where our Head Office is located.  Although we walk on these streets every day, unless we take  the trouble to look, we dont notice the various types of trash  or the surprising amount of litter people casually toss away.  We intend to continue this activity as  a way of showing our gratitude to the  local community. Showing Gratitude to Local Communities Hiroyuki Yada CSR Department 
33 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Hand in Hand with Local Communities and Society Participating in and Supporting Community Events      As part of their local communication activities, Sumi- tomo Chemicals worksites participate in local events and  support them by providing public access to their premis- es. For example, the Oita Works participated in the Honba  Tsurusaki Dance Festival, employees at the Osaka Works  volunteered to support the table tennis championship  for the disabled, and the Misawa Works provided special  support for the Misawa International Wheelchair Tennis  Tournament.  Accepting Student Interns      The internship program is intended to provide students  with an opportunity for work experience related to their  chosen subject area or future career and to nurture their  own view of occupation and work. Every year, we accept  local senior high school and junior technical college stu- dents as interns at  our worksites, where  they are deepening  their understanding  of what it means to  work and the kind of  work people do in a  chemical company. Giving Special Lessons at Elementary and  Junior High Schools      Sumitomo Chemical sends instructors to elementary  and junior high schools for School Science Visits and to  give classes on environmental issues to stimulate chil- drens interest in science and contribute to science educa- tion. Every year the instructors prepare creative programs  to show children how fascinating science is, and they al- ways have fun interacting with the children.      In addition, the Chiba Works continues to promote the  Ichihara-Sodegaura Young Inventors Club, which receives  the enthusiastic support of employees, retirees, school  teachers, and local residents.  Promoting Sports      We also sponsor or support various sporting events to  provide local children with opportunities to develop men- tally and physically through sport.  Employees participating in the Misawa International Wheelchair  Tennis Tournament (Misawa Works) Participating in the Honba Tsurusaki Dance Festival  (Oita Works)  Accepting student interns (Okayama Plant)  Ice hockey competition for boys (Misawa Works) Ichihara-Sodegaura Young Inventors Club  (Chiba Works) School Science Visit  (Ehime Works) 
Social Activities 34 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 For the Global Community      The Sumitomo Chemical Group is conducting localized  social contribution activities. The following shows some  representative examples of these activities in various re- gions. Controlling Red Imported Fire Ants in Australia      Sumitomo Chemical Australia is supporting the control  of red imported  re ants in Australia by providing specially  developed ant baits containing insect growth regulators,  which are not directly toxic to ants and other fauna but  target reproduction and growth in the ant colony.      Red imported fire ants are native to South America. They have an irritating and painful sting, which sometimes  causes serious allergic symptoms or anaphylactic shock. The habitat of the red imported  re ant has been expand- ing.      They have spread to many parts of  the world including Australia, where  they were  rst detected in 2001. Fire  ants and other invasive ant species  in Australia and nearby Pacific na- tions are a serious threat to both hu- man health and local ecosystems.      In response, the Australian government began devel- oping a program to prevent damage caused by the  re ant  and other non-native ants. Sumitomo Chemical Australia  is helping the government develop this program by pro- viding ant baits as well as its knowledge and expertise.  Distance Ant Bait, containing Pyriproxyfen developed by  Sumitomo Chemical, is one of the major tools used by the  Australian Government to combat  re ants and other inva- sive ant species. Sumitomo Chemical Australia has also  donated ant bait to villages in Papua New Guinea to help  combat the effects of another species of  re ant, the Little  Fire Ant.         Sumitomo Chemical Australia will continue to cooper- ate with relevant organizations to eliminate non-native in- vasive ants, including the red imported  re ant. Asia  Africa  Europe Oceania Uganda Supporting activities to improve the educational environment  and construct school buildings Ethiopia Supporting activities to improve the educational environment Kenya Supporting activities to improve the educational environment  and donating Olyset Nets Tanzania Donating Olyset Nets Mozambique Donating Olyset Nets Senegal Donating OlysetNets Congo Donating Olyset Nets (Others) Donating Olyset Nets to Millennium Villages across Africa Hungary University scholarship program Australia Assistance with the control of red imported   re ants Fiji Assistance with tree-planting activities China University scholarship program Acceptance of student interns Support for elementary schools in Anhui Province Assistance with tree-planting activities Thailand Assistance with tree-planting activities Beach cleanup activities Indonesia Assistance with tree-planting activities Malaysia Assistance with tree-planting activities  Red imported  re ant 
35 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Hand in Hand with Local Communities and Society Removing non-native plants in Illinois,  United States     Valent BioSciences Corporation (VBC), a Group  company in the United States, partnered with the  Lake Country Forest Preserve District to remove  garlic mustard (Alliaria petiolata), an invasive plant,  from the Wright Woods Forest Preserve in Mettawa,  Illinois in July 2009.     Garlic mustard, a biennial plant of the mustard  family, is a non-native plant that was introduced into  North America as a culinary herb in the 1860s. The  plant is fertile and kills bacteria around it by emit- ting chemical substances, thereby preventing other  plants from growing. At Wright Woods, garlic mus- tard is expanding its range at the expense of other  native woodland plants.     Armed with gloves and plastic bags, 12 VBC  employees volunteered to remove the bothersome  weed.     It was the first experience of this kind for VBC,  which will continue to help maintain and restore the  natural harmony and biodiversity of Wright Woods. VOICE America United States of America Protection of a forest preserve in Mettawa Support for NGOs through donations Haiti Donating Olyset Nets Valent U.S.A. Corporation launched a Matching Gift program  in fi scal 2009, which is a fund that matches, dollar for dollar,  an employee contribution to qualified charitable organiza- tions. During the initial program year, 47 matching donations were  made to 35 different organizations and totaled 6,264 dol- lars. The donee organizations included University programs,  school music and athletic programs, public television, a his- torical museum, local humane societies, food banks, and the  American Red Cross. This program, along with environmental  and local community activities conducted by Valent U.S.A.,  gives employees many ways to make a difference at home  and around the world.  We Also Launched a Matching Gift Program Leslie Kvasnicka Corporate QA & EHS Manager Valent U.S.A. Corporation  Volunteering to remove garlic mustard 
Social Activities 36 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Environmental Activity Program in Thailand      Recently, environmental protection has also become a  major issue in Thailand due to global warming and a de- crease in the forest area. Bara Chemical Co., Ltd., a Group  company in Thailand, conducts unique environmental ac- tivities that include seaside cleanups and tree planting.      In July 2009, the company conducted a cleanup activity  at the beach of Rayong, 200 km south of Bangkok, during  a company trip there, with the participation of 108 employ- ees. In addition, a total of 15 employees also planted 50  mangrove trees on the coast south of Bangkok near Bara  Chemical.     The company believes that these activities not only  contribute to society but also raise employees awareness  of the environment,  and it will continue to  conduct these volun- teer activities.  Donating to Society      Sumitomo Chemical regards donating as an integral  part of its corporate social responsibility and makes dona- tions taking into consideration all factors including social  impact, long-term continuity, and urgency. Specifically,  the company matches the donations made by employees  and donates the total amount under the Matching Gift pro- gram, and employees can also donate through the TABLE  FOR TWO meals available in the Company cafeteria. We  are also continuing to donate the Olyset Net to help pre- vent malaria. In  scal 2009, we made 349 donations total- ing 237.47 million yen. Promoting Closer Ties of Friendship Providing scholarships for Chinese students      Since  scal 2006, Sumitomo Chemical has been pro- viding scholarships for students at Dalian University of  Technology, which is located in Dalian, Liaoning Province,  a city with which the Company has close relations through  the manufacture of its Olyset Net and local business op- erations by its af liates.      In  scal 2009, 64 students were chosen as scholarship  recipients, and the award ceremony was held in Novem- ber 2009.     We hope this scholarship program will encourage stu- dents and also help promote friendship between Japan  and China. Donations Made in Fiscal 2009  Major Donations Made in Fiscal 2009 Seaside cleanup in Rayong, Thailand Local community activities Sports Social welfare Health and medicine Science and research Education and social education Culture and art The environment Preservation of historic sites and traditional culture International exchange and cooperation Support for disaster-affected areas Support for the creation of disaster-resiliant communities Formulation of the basis for an NPO Others Total 124 23 17 2 8 16 15 8 3 33 2 1 2 96 349  (Total donated amount: 237.47 million yen)  (Unit: Donations) (Unit: millions of yen) Providing funding for the Sumitomo Foundation Supporting the Southern African Development Community through the use of  the Olyset Net Sponsoring the organization of the Japan Pavilion of Expo 2010 Shanghai China Constructing school buildings in Uganda Cooperating with a malaria control campaign in Senegal 38 32 25 7 7 Scholarship award ceremony at Dalian University of Technology in China 
37 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Hand in Hand with Local Communities and Society TOPIC Regional Safety and Risk Communication      Sumitomo Chemical is committed to promoting mutual  understanding with various stakeholders, including local  communities, through information sharing. To this end, we  give  rst priority to increased information disclosure and  the promotion of dialogue.      We are also making efforts to improve the landscape  and environment at our worksites in response to com- ments we have received. Company-Wide Promotion of Risk Communication  Activities     Sumitomo Chemical actively works to improve risk  communication by developing company-wide policies on  risk communication and further clarifying challenges and  initiatives. Localized Information Disclosure by the Works    CSR reports and other materials are issued annually by  the Company and all its Works. Works versions are called  Report on the Environment, Health and Safety, and  complement the Companys CSR Report with regard to  local efforts. In addition, three Works (Ehime, Osaka and  Oita) publish local newsletters for the distribution of area- speci c information. Engaging in a Variety of Risk Communication Activities     Each Works engages in a variety of risk communication  activities for various purposes. These include risk com- munication model projects carried out jointly with local  governments, environment and safety support projects  for domestic and overseas governments and businesses,  regular meetings with local residents, and dialogues with  the community based on cooperation with the chemical  industry.  In February 2010, the 7th Oita Region Responsible Care (RC)  Regional Dialogue was held on issues regarding environ- mental protection, industrial safety and disaster prevention  by the local members of the Japan Responsible Care Coun- cil (JRCC), including Sumitomo Chemicals Oita Works. The dialogue meeting, which was designed to deepen  communication between the companies and local resi- dents, was a success, with a total of 170 people participat- ing, including some 80 local residents and representatives  of residents associations, as well as local government of- fi cials, school staff , and employees of related companies. Representatives of local residents, environmental NPOs,  universities, governments, and companies took part in a  panel discussion, during which they enthusiastically dis- cussed issues such as corporate RC activities and global  warming. At the Q&A session, the audience raised candid  questions and off ered their comments, making the session  quite exciting. The Oita Works participates in each regional dialogue  meeting as the leader of the companies and facilitator of  discussions, and is committed to improving the content. To  this end, the Works proposed to organize a plant tour for  both the JRCC member companies and non-members. Also, in March 2009, JRCC member companies in Oita held  RC Regional Dialogue and a RC Small Meeting  (Oita Works) a small RC meeting, which they had been holding bienni- ally. At the meeting, representatives of the companies and  local residents exchanged opinions, and a panel exhibition  was held in response to strong requests from residents. At  the exhibition, the Oita Works showed videos illustrating  its 70-year history and introduced downstream products  made using products from the Works as well as the social  contributions made through the Olyset  Net. A number  of participating residents expressed their desire for these  kinds of dialogues to continue. We will continue to promote active  communication with local residents  to ensure harmonious coexistence  with local communities. Company-wide policy Tasks Specific initiatives Promoting communication with society  Increased information disclosure  Promoting dialogue  Information disclosure through the Report on the    Environment, Health and Safety and local newsletters  Broad risk communication  Cross-divisional implementation Kozo Tamai Responsible Care Department, Oita Works 
Social Activities 38 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Basic Procurement Policies Hand in Hand with Business Partners     Sumitomo Chemical is committed to building sound  mutual relations with business partners based on the  Basic Procurement Principles. In addition to ensuring fair- ness, equitability, and transparency in our transactions,  we are also promoting responsible procurement by pur- chasing preferentially from suppliers of raw materials and  packaging materials that are committed to CSR. Basics of Responsible Procurement Clarifying regulations within the Company     Sumitomo Chemical clearly states the following basic  principle of responsible procurement in its Basic Procure- ment Policies (shown below):    4. In its procurement, the Procurement Section shall give  preference to those suppliers that are active in CSR initia- tives, with the aim of ful lling its corporate social responsi- bilities and building sound relationships with suppliers.     In addition, we clearly state our basic responsible pro- curement policy in the Group Business Standards of Pro- curement, which apply to Group companies both in Japan  and overseas. Clarifying regulations within the Company (1) Using the Sumitomo Chemical Supply-Chain CSR Deployment       Check Sheet     Sumitomo Chemical has created the Sumitomo Chemi- cal Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook, which  explains CSR items to be focused on by suppliers. Sumi- tomo Chemical aims to help its suppliers address their  issues by monitoring and providing feedback on the re- sults of their self evaluation using the Sumitomo Chemical  Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Check Sheets and helping  them promote CSR activities by repeating the PDCA cycle.  (See Figures 1 to 3) (2) Webpage on Procurement Information     Sumitomo Chemical has a CSR Procurement webpage  on its Procurement Information website linked from the  Company homepage in order to broadly inform its stake- holders about its CSR procurement initiatives. This CSR  Procurement webpage allows suppliers to download the  guidebook and check sheets and report the results of  their self evaluation. Procurement Information website:  http://www.sumitomo-chem.co.jp/english/purchase/ index.html Sumitomo Chemical has started implementing its responsible procurement initiatives for the purchase of  raw materials and packaging materials. Monitoring and support CSR Deployment Guidebook* Creating an improvement plan Fulfilling CSR Self evaluation and reporting Suppliers (trading  companies and  manufacturers) Explaining the CSR items Feedback on the report System for dissemination and compliance                     Use of the CSR Deployment Check Sheets * * The guidebook and check sheets can be downloaded from the website. Sumitomo Chemical Figure 1  System for Responsible Procurement The Procurement Section shall strive to conduct pro- curement transactions on the basis of fair, equitable,  transparent and free competition without involving per- sonal interests or arbitrary considerations. Th e Procurement Section shall strive to select suppliers  to transact with in accordance with the most appropri- ate and economically rational methods and shall pursue  the maintenance of sound business relationships with  suppliers, aiming for mutual growth and development. Th e Procurement Section shall strive to provide corpo- rate services globally throughout the entire Group. In its procurement, the Procurement Section shall give  preference to those suppliers that are active in CSR  initiatives, with the aim of fulfi lling its corporate social  responsibilities and building sound relationships with  suppliers. The Procurement Section shall strive always to meet  quality requirements of Sumitomo Chemicals internal  sections that request purchase of Goods and Services. In performing Procurement Operations, the highest  priority shall be given to safe and stable operation in or- der to achieve zero-accident and zero-injury operations. In performing Procurement Operations, the highest  consideration shall be given to customer satisfaction. Th e Procurement Section shall ensure the transparency  of Procurement Operations. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 
39 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Hand in Hand with Business Partners sible procurement. (1) Cooperation with Sumitomo Chemical Shanghai and       Sumitomo Chemical India     We will monitor the self evaluation results for suppliers  in China and India, including factory visits, through Sumi- tomo Chemical Shanghai and Sumitomo Chemical India. (2) Deployment at both domestic and overseas Group companies     Sumitomo Chemical will propose activities for promot- ing responsible procurement to Group companies accord- ing to their actual status of implementation, including the  joint use of the CSR Deployment Guidebook and Check  Sheets (Figure 4). Initiatives in Fiscal 2009 (1) Monitoring     Sumitomo Chemical distributed copies of the CSR De- ployment Guidebook mainly to new domestic and over- seas suppliers and launched the self evaluation system  using the CSR Deployment Check Sheets. (2) Introduction to Group companies and information exchange        among domestic Group companies     The CSR Deployment Guidebook and Check Sheets  were introduced to domestic Group companies and they  were shown how we suggest they use them. We regard  the promotion of responsible procurement activities with  Group companies as one of our tasks for  scal 2010. (3) Exchange of responsible procurement information with       competitors     To actively encourage responsible procurement, we  exchanged information with procurement heads at other  companies in the industry. Speci cally, we checked Sumi- tomo Chemicals and other companies ideas on and sys- tems for responsible procurement and exchanged infor- mation on monitoring methods. Fiscal 2010 Tasks for Responsible Procurement Initiatives     In fiscal 2010, Sumitomo Chemical will utilize its re- sponsible procurement system in some speci c overseas  areas, mainly China, India, and Southeast Asia, and will  monitor and provide feedback on CSR initiatives under- taken by local manufacturers to further promote respon- Figure 4  Deployment of Responsible Procurement Other stakeholders Basic Purchasing Policies (CSR Procurement) CSR Deployment Guidebook and Check Sheets Sumitomo Chemical  Shanghai Sumitomo Chemical  India Group companies Suppliers (Manufacturers and  trading companies) Explanation of the  Guidebook and  the system Explanation of  responsible  procurement Monitoring, feedback, and  support for improvements Awareness-raising through the website Sumitomo Chemical Sumitomo Chemical Figure 3  Sumitomo Chemical Supply-Chain CSR Deployment                Check Sheets (Extract) Figure 2  Sumitomo Chemical Supply-Chain CSR Deployment   Guidebook (Extract) Compliance with Laws and Ethics  Compliance with various business laws Suppliers are requested to fully understand relevant business laws  and comply with these laws, in carrying out business operations. Business laws means are generally referred to as business laws,  which apply to certain businesses, and impose various duties upon  relevant business enterprises, such as the submission of noti ca- tions or reports to, and the acquisition of permits of licenses from,  government and municipal of ces. You must understand the various  business laws that regulate business activities, acquire or submit  permits or licenses speci ed in the various business laws, and com- ply with the requirements speci ed in these laws, such as quality  standards, markings, the submission of documents or periodical  reports, and the preparation of transaction records. Prohibit impediments to free competition Suppliers are requested not to impede fair, transparent, and  free competition. Competition restrictive activities mean . . . Human Rights and Labor Prevent Accident and Occupational Health and Safety  Environmental Preservation Product Quality and Safety Human Rights and Labor . Prohibit discrimination  Suppliers are requested to prohibit discrimination during the proc- ess of job off ering and hiring, and to endeavor the equal opportunity  and fairness of treatment. A. Please self-check your actual status for the following questions. A -1Do you practice appropriate controls to avoid discrimination                in recruiting process or at employment?   (Pls. Select) [Evaluation Guide] (Violation herein means not only legal violation but also      deviation from social disciplines.)    (5) = No violation/problem is con rmed by periodical investigation and            audit.    (3) = No violation is reported as far as we grasp, neither investigation             nor audit were performed.    (1) = Big violation is identi ed or the actual condition/status is not             grasped. B. Please provide relevant information when your company          corresponds to the cases below.          -Violation is identified in the past for 2 years if it is applied.          -Improving plan for CSR program.  (Pls. fill in) 
Social Activities 40 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010      Sumitomo Chemical will plan and implement a vari- ety of human resources measures, giving due consid- eration to compliance and diversity among employees.  Most importantly, the Company will strengthen its hu- man resources system from a global perspective, pro- mote talent development, practice the right person to  the right position principle, and enhance the workplace  environment. HR System that Maximizes Employees Potential     Sumitomo Chemical will work to further enhance and  appropriately implement its role- and performance- based human resources system to enable employees  to maximize their potential. The Company will address  challenges in the retention, deployment and develop- ment of its diverse talent, while paying special attention  to changes in the business environment inside and out- side the Company as well as trends in globalization. Implementing our Manpower Plan    Sumitomo Chemical will secure and retain the opti- mum talent and workforce to support its business de- velopment, and will deploy the right person to the right  position throughout the Group, so that each employee  can conduct his or her duties with a sense of ful llment  and job satisfaction, contributing to the overall strength  of the Company. Diverse Employees at Work     In response to the global business environment as  well as the aging society and declining birth rate in Ja- pan, Sumitomo Chemical will work to diversify its work- force, including rehiring retirees, so that each employee  can fully demonstrate his or her abilities regardless of  nationality, gender or age. The Company will also work  on the development of talent who can play a role inter- nationally to contribute to its globally expanding busi- ness operations. Creating a Vibrant Workplace   The Company will work to create a vibrant workplace  by encouraging communication so that each employee  can make use of his or her own strengths and further  enhance teamwork. Health Management     Sumitomo Chemical will enhance its health manage- ment and promotion measures to enable its employees  to work in good health, both mentally and physically, by  addressing mental health issues as well as challenges in  enhancing the health management system for expatri- ates. HR System that Inspires Greater Motivation Role-Based HR System     Sumitomo Chemical has introduced a role-based hu- man resources system for both managerial and non-man- agerial employees.     The system operates on the same concepts of perfor- mance evaluation, salary, and other HR parameters for  both managerial and non-managerial employees. Evaluation System     Both managerial and non-managerial employees are  evaluated not only for performance but also for competen- cies, behavioral processes and attitude. The aim of this  system is not merely the pursuit of short-term achieve- ments, but rather employee development and medium- to  long-term corporate development.     Since  scal 2009, evaluation items for attitudes and ac- tions that contribute to the organization have been given  greater weight in evaluations in order to highlight the im- portance of achieving results through teamwork. Compliance and CSR Evaluations     Compliance and CSR are included in the items evalu- ated for non-managerial employees with a view to raising  compliance and CSR awareness. CSR evaluations focus  on Responsible Care (safety, environment, and product  quality).  Priority Targets for Fiscal 2010 to 2012 Hand in Hand with Employees Sumitomo Chemical is working to create a workplace environment in which individual employees can feel  motivated and make the most of their abilities. 
41 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Creating a Comfortable Workplace (1) Promoting Work-Life Balance     Sumitomo Chemical continuously implements mea- sures for improving employees work-life balance and also  seeks to further raise their motivation and morale by offer- ing shortened working hours and increased time off. Support for Childcare and Nursing Care     To help employees respond to various developments  in their lives at different stages, and also to ensure that  we retain talent, we are providing a number of childcare  and nursing care support systems, including an enhanced  childcare leave system and new in-house childcare facili- ties (see page 22).     In April 2008, in recognition of the formulation and  implementation of an action plan to support employee  childcare, we obtained approval  from the Japanese Ministry of  Health, Labour and Welfare to use  the Kurumin mark, which certi es  a business operator as supporting  the upbringing of children who will  become the leaders of the next generation.     Since  scal 2008, we have been implementing a  ve- year plan to help employees make work and childcare  compatible. Supporting Employees Social Contribution and  Full llment of Social Duties     Sumitomo Chemical has been enhancing its working  environment to actively support employees social contri- butions and full llment of social duties.     Speci cally, we have instituted a volunteer leave system  that enables employees to take paid volunteer leave of up  to two consecutive working days per year to support their  social contribution activities. Since launching this system  in April 2008, 16 employees have made use of it (as of  March 31, 2010).     We made improvements in the working environment  to enable employees to participate easily in the lay judge  system that started in Japan in May 2009. When employ- ees of Sumitomo Chemical are selected to be lay judges,  they will be allowed to take paid holidays and will also re- ceive a daily allowance from the court. Hand in Hand with Employees Nursing care leave (paid) Nursing care leave (unpaid) Childcare leave (unpaid) Maternity leave (paid) Reduced working hour system Establishment of in-house childcare facilities Special reserve leave Grant for childcare (Mutual aid association) Childcare and nursing care support services Reemployment system Introduction of a refreshment day Number of annual paid holidays Systematic allocation of annual paid holidays Increase in the number of employees  eligible for half-day paid holidays Special leave for employees going abroad  because of job transfer of spouse Up to 20 days per event; available when taking care of sick children or nursing family members Available when nursing family members (one year) Available for up to 18 months, regardless of the reason Available once a month, when the applicant undergoes an antenatal examination under the Maternal and  Child Health Act Working hours are reduced by up to three hours per day for employees with children in the third grade at  elementary school or younger and for employees nursing family members. Established on the premises of the Ehime, Chiba, and Osaka Works Opened at Tokyo head office in August 2010 Available for the number of days reserved (up to 60) as leave from among paid holidays for which the right of claim has  expired, when employees cannot work for five consecutive days or more because of nursing care, childcare, or illness Every month 10,000 yen is paid per child to working employees if they have children younger than school  age who attend childcare facilities. Childcare and nursing care services are provided by welfare services with which the Company has formed  partnerships.  Employees who left the company because of childbirth, or for childcare, nursing care, etc. are given the  opportunity for reemployment subject to certain conditions. Employees are encouraged to leave work on time on refreshment days designated by each individual  workplace and worksite at least once a week. Twenty days paid holiday are granted to all employees from the first year of work. Annual paid holidays are allocated systematically by each worksite. Employees under the flextime program without any core time can also take half-day holidays now. Employees going abroad because of the job transfer of their spouses can take this special leave subject to  certain conditions. Number of users  in fiscal 2009 Description System/Measure Support for childcare and nursing care Leave and working hours 67 1 63 25 51 88 8   10     4 *1 *2 *3 Systems and Measures for Better Work-Life Balance *1. Only for childcare and nursing care *2. Number registered as of the end of March 2010 *3 Number of users as of the end of March 2010 
Social Activities 42 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 (2) Managing Physical and Mental Health     Sumitomo Chemical has developed its comprehen- sive Sumika Health Improvement Plan (SHIP) to ensure  that employees can remain both physically and mentally  healthy. In January 2009, the Company assigned a chief  occupational health physician to centrally manage the  health of employees, and has been implementing a variety  of measures to help employees manage and improve their  health. Mental Health     Employees can use the counseling services provided by  the in-house mental health facilities and also by special- ist external institutions. In  scal 2009, seminars on caring  for mental health were held for new employees and newly  promoted employees.     In addition, in order to help employees who have been  absent from work for extended periods due to mental  health problems return to work, we introduced a work  rehabilitation system in April 2009. Under this system, an  employee can work shorter hours or days and with re- duced responsibilities for up to three months, and the on- site occupational health physician, HR staff member, and  the employees manager cooperate in helping the employ- ee to start working again. In  scal 2009, seven employees  returned to work under this system. Physical Health     By law, all employees and their dependents aged 40 or  older are entitled to special health checks and guidance  on preventing metabolic syndrome. Sumitomo Chemical  works with its health insurance association to ensure that  all employees undergo this special health check regard- less of age and employees aged 35 or older receive guid- ance on early diagnosis and prevention of lifestyle-related  diseases.     In  scal 2009, the company sent its chief occupational  health physician to provide medical counseling and evalu- ate the medical service environment to Saudi Arabia three  times and to the United States and Singapore once each  to provide support for employees working overseas and  their families. VOICE TOPIC At Sumitomo Chemical, internal occupational health physi- cians, health workers, and nurses cooperate with the HR  department and workplace to prevent employees from be- coming physically or mentally unwell and to improve their  physical and mental health. Employees are the companys main players in its global busi- ness operations, and we will support them in many diff erent  ways to enable them to lead both physically and mentally  healthy lives, reviewing and improv- ing these services as required. Supporting Employees Both Physically and Mentally Hiroaki Itatani Chief occupational health physician Holding Experiential Health Seminars The Misawa Works has been holding experiential health  seminars as part of its health management efforts. In  fiscal 2009, the Works held a seminar on preserving  physical and mental health, in which employees learned  a relaxation method, listened to talks by external lectur- ers (a nationally registered dietitian and a health fi tness  instructor), ate a healthy lunch, and did stretches and  walking exercises. Through this seminar, employees learned about good  nutrition, exercise, and rest, and how to use this knowl- edge to manage their health through delicious meals  and pleasant exercise. Mental health training Health seminar 
43 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Hand in Hand with Employees Use of Diversi ed Human Resources Diversi ed Employment     Sumitomo Chemical looks for and recruits talented  people, regardless of age, background, gender or nation- ality in a wide range of areas, and a diverse spectrum of  people are working in the Company. In fiscal 2009, the  Company recruited 149 university graduates, including 17  foreign nationals.     We are also committed to providing employees with a  workplace in which they feel comfortable working regard- less of gender, and an increasing number of women feel  able to exercise their talents at the Company. Employment of People with Disabilities     Sumitomo Chemical has been actively employing  people with disabilities. When we accept them, we assign  them suitable work, and modify the workplace where nec- essary so that they can make the most of their abilities. Reemployment of Retirees     We began reemploying retirees in fiscal 2001 and in- troduced a new reemployment system in April 2006, in  response to the revision of the Japanese Act on Stabiliza- tion of Employment of Elderly Persons. In  scal 2009, we  reemployed 116 (65.9%) from among 176 retirees (of Sumi- tomo Chemical). They are able to continue demonstrating  the skill and expertise they have gained through working  for the Company. Human Rights Protection of Human Rights     To educate employees on human rights issues and re- sponsible behavior, Sumitomo Chemical holds a meeting  on human rights every year, formulates annual policies  on human rights, and holds seminars and other activities  based on these policies. The Company also undertakes  company-wide efforts to prevent sexual harassment and  other disturbing behavior. In order to create a workplace  where employees of both genders can demonstrate their  abilities, the Company is working continuously to raise  awareness among employees by giving new managers  training on sexual harassment, discrimination and other  problems. Participating in the TABLE FOR TWO program     Sumitomo Chemical has been participating in the TA- BLE FOR TWO program since May 2008 to promote em- ployees health and contribute to society. The Company  serves healthy menu options at the cafeterias at its sites  according to the criteria set down by the TABLE FOR  TWO (TFT) organization. When employees choose to  eat any of the healthy meals, 20 yen per meal is donated  to the TFT secretariat and the money is used to pay for  a school lunch for one child in an African country. In this  way the company is helping to alleviate hunger in Africa  while also helping employees avoid obesity and lifestyle- related diseases at the same time.     Furthermore, as a Matching Gift, the Company makes  a donation to the TFT secretariat matching employees  donations, and donations to this organization totaled  5,668,280 yen as of March 2010. VOICE Numbers of New Women Employees and Female Managers  Reemployment of Retirees (of Sumitomo Chemical) I sometimes go on business trips to Africa, where people face  serous food shortages. I feel pleased that I can contribute  to solving this problem by choosing a TFT meal. TFT meals,  which are composed of a low-calorie main dish and a small  side dish, are also good for my own health: although I go jog- ging at least one hour every morning and exercise at a sports  gym on weekends, I used to fi nd it dif- fi cult to improve my diet. Social Contribution through TABLE FOR TWO Hiroshi Sakka Production Planning Department Vector Control Division Employment Rate for People with Disabilities Fiscal year Retirees The reemployed Reemployment rate 2006 158 98 62.0% 2007 205 129 62.9% 2008 167 88 52.7% 2009 176 116 65.9% Fiscal year New women  employees  (Percentage of the  total number of new  employees) Number of female  managers* (Percentage of the  total number of  managers) 2006 61 15.6% 104 3.3% 2007 78 17.0% 127 4.1% 2008 81 19.1% 149 4.6% 2009 45 22.4% 155 4.8% Fiscal year Employment rate  2006 1.89% 2007 1.93% 2008 1.95% 2009 2.01%  As of March 1 of each  scal year  As of August 1 of each  scal year 
Social Activities 44 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Labor-Management Relations Maintaining and Improving Good Labor-Management Relations     Sumitomo Chemical and its labor union have been  cooperating as good management partners to meet chal- lenges and achieve targets based on long-term mutual  understanding and trust.      Providing opportunities for exchanges, semi-annual  central labor-management meetings and regional labor- management meetings are held at all worksites.     The Company and the labor union also hold meetings  to discuss and formulate various programs for non-mana- gerial employees to enable them to increase their morale  and motivation at work. Labor-Management Initiatives     Sumitomo Chemical has been cooperating with its labor  union in combating global warming and in social contribu- tion activities initiated by employees. (1) Promoting CO2 emissions reductions in the household     In cooperation with its labor union, Sumitomo Chemical  is encouraging reductions in CO2 emissions, not only in  its factories and of ces, but also in its employees house- holds.     Since  scal 2008, the Company has been distributing  its own environmental accounting books to all employ- ees and encouraging them to identify the sources of CO2  emissions in their homes. In  scal 2009, we started a pro- gram to encourage employees to reduce CO2 emissions  at home and to commend those who achieve substantial  reductions. (2) Matching Gift Program     In  scal 2007, Sumitomo Chemical started its Matching  Gift program jointly with its labor union. In this program,  donations are solicited from employees and executives of  Sumitomo Chemical Group companies, and the Company  matches the amount collected. The total is then donated  to the organizations selected as recipients of support.      In  scal 2009, we donated to ASHINAGA* a private NPO,  as part of our support for childrens upbringing and edu- cation. We also made a donation to the Organization for  Industrial, Spiritual and Cultural Advancement-International  (OISCA) to support its tree-planting activities as part  of our support for global environmental protection and  the prevention of global warming. Amounts of 5798,733  yen and 6,390,633 yen were donated to ASHINAGA and  OISCA respectively by employees and executives, and the  Company matched the amounts.     Using part of the money donated to OISCA, we are  helping them to plant mangrove trees in Ranong in the  south of Thailand. (For details see Highlights on page 23.)  1.   2.  CO2             kwh m3 m3  m3   4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  1  2  3   kg    4  3          4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  1  2  3   *ASHINAGA is a private NPO established to provide physical and mental  support for children who have lost their parents because of illness, accidents  or for other reasons. The money donated to this organization is used to  provide a scholarship fund for these orphans. OISCA is a global NGO engaged in rural development and environmental  protection mainly in the Asia-Pacific region. The money donated by  Sumitomo Chemical to this organization is used for its Childrens Forest  Program and to plant mangrove trees in Ranong, Thailand. 2008  4  1 CSR    CO2    OK   CO2     CO2     CO2  CO2   1.   CO2  2. CO2     kwh  m3  m3   m3   CO2  (kg) (kg) (kg) (kg) (kg) (kg)   2008  4  3  1    CO2      1   CO2  3.4 2005  1.6 0.86 0.74          CO2    CO2  1kg         40  60 20  40 50  70 30  40 200  400 50  70         0.4 2.2 6.0 2.5 0.6 2.3 Environmental  accounting book Donations to ASHINAGA (top) and OISCA (bottom) 
45 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Human Resources Development     Sumitomo Chemical implements training rotations and  offers a variety of human resources development pro- grams with a view to enabling personnel to fully demon- strate their abilities as world-class professionals who can  contribute to the Companys global expansion. Enhanced Human Resources Development     In  scal 2009, we provided all employees with training  that meets the requirements of their individual job grades  and various other measures focusing on the following four  items. Planned development of global leaders who will play  a central managerial role Smooth inter-generational transfer of technologies  and skills that support our business  Development of the human resources required for  global business expansion Support for employees in acquiring and developing  the knowledge, skills, and competencies necessary  for their job grades     As a new initiative, we held training sessions to enable  individual employees to carry out their business duties  based on a full understanding of the Companys Business  Philosophy. We also created a workplace management  guidebook to help employees develop a vibrant corpo- rate culture and continue to be a company that society  can trust, as stated in the Business Philosophy, and dis- tributed copies of the guidebook that outlines the basics  of workplace management to all section managers and  above. Training Rotation System     Since  scal 2004, Sumitomo Chemical has been carry- ing out systematic training rotations of younger employees  to ensure that individuals are placed in the positions for  which they are best suited. To date, nearly 200 employees  have undergone training rotations.     In  scal 2009, we started a new training rotation system  and expanded it to include all non-managerial employees  regardless of their job categories and some managerial  employees. Under the system, we are using the prefer- ences submitted by employees and the development  plans made by their managers to help employees plan and  develop their ideal careers. In  scal 2009, rotation plans  were made for 898 employees and these plans are being  steadily implemented. Trainer System     Sumitomo Chemical introduced a Trainer System in  January 2008, under which older employees who are  highly skilled and have an aptitude for teaching the young  are certified as trainers. These trainers provide instruc- tion and advice to younger employees to facilitate their  development and to ensure the succession of skills from  generation to generation. As of April 2009, a total of 51  employees have been certi ed as trainers throughout the  company.     In April 2010, we also introduced a Mentor System to  give supervisors and potential supervisors on-the-job  training. We are using this system to enhance the develop- ment of core talent for manufacturing departments. Hand in Hand with Employees VOICE Since I was certified as a trainer in January 2008, I have been  engaged in training young employees and passing on my skills  to them. Every day, I feel both the difficulty and pleasures of  helping young employees acquire professional skills. I will work  harder to foster communication with young employees and be- come a trainer they want to consult. Certifi ed as a Trainer Masamitsu Takahashi Niihama Third Manufacturing  Department, Ehime Works Trainer Takahashi teaching a young employee how pipes  are arranged to prepare for regular repairs and possible emergencies (1) (2) (3) (4) 
Responsible Care Activities 46 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Progress in the Ful llment of the Eco-First  Commitments      As a leading company in the chemical industry, Sumi- tomo Chemical is committed to fulfilling its Eco-First  Commitments to the Japanese Minister of the Environ- Eco-First Commitments ment through the appropriate management of chemical  substances while ensuring legal compliance and promot- ing RC activities. (For details, also refer to page 24.) Sumitomo Chemical is conducting Responsible Care* activities throughout the Sumitomo Chemical Group  both in Japan and overseas, because it regards Responsible Care as one of its top management priorities,  which it is developing globally.  Responsible Care Activities *Responsible Care (RC) This is a voluntary initiative undertaken by the chemical industry to ensure safety, preserve the environment, protect health, and  maintain product quality throughout the lifecycles of its products and to gain the trust of society through continuous dialogue. We will manage chemical substances and promote risk communication in an appropriate and proactive manner. - We will review the information on the safety of all our products manufactured or sold in annual amounts of one ton or more by  fi scal 2016 in order that all members of society may use Sumitomo Chemicals products more safely and with peace of mind, and  we will conduct the appropriate risk assessments based on the results by fi scal 2020. - We will collaborate with chemical companies globally on voluntary projects for inspecting the safety of high production vol- ume (HPV) chemicals and studies of the impact of chemical substances on human health and the environment (the Long-range  Research Initiative : LRI) in order to improve the safety of chemical substances. We will complete the necessary work on the  three HPV chemical substances for which  Sumitomo Chemical is taking the lead responsibility by fi scal 2010.  - We will halve the total release into the air and water of chemical substances subject to the PRTR* Act relative to fi scal 2002  levels by fi scal 2010. - All the offi  ces and facilities at Sumitomo Chemical will communicate eff ectively with and voluntarily promote information  disclosure to consumers and other stakeholders in creative ways that suit the local community. We will actively promote initiatives to prevent global warming. - We will work to improve unit energy consumption by 25% at all our Works and unit CO2 emissions from the captive consump- tion of fossil fuels by 20% over fi scal 1990 levels by fi scal 2015. - As a member of the Japan Petrochemical Industry Association, we are committed to the heat recovery technology (HEART) Project with a view to developing and commercializing innovative energy-saving technologies to recover low-temperature heat  (130 degrees Centigrade and lower) generated by our petrochemical plants that has not been recycled and reuse it at our manu- facturing plants by fi scal 2015. - We will promote a modal shift  in logistics and upsize transport containers to improve the effi  ciency of our logistics divisions,  thereby improving their unit energy consumption by 1% annually. - In cooperation with the labor union, we will implement measures to help prevent global warming through the reduction of  household CO2 emissions by encouraging employees to make continuous eff orts to reduce CO2 emissions at home. We will actively promote initiatives for building a recycling-based society. - We will endeavor to reduce waste and promote recycling, aiming at achieving a 90% reduction in industrial waste landfi ll  relative to fi scal 1990 levels by fi scal 2010. - We will reduce the ratio of landfi ll to total waste generated at all our Works to less than 3% by fi scal 2015. 1. 2. 3. *Pollutant release and transfer register (PRTR) A system for recording emissions and movement of environmental pollutants. This system enables collection, totaling,  and reporting of data from each source and also allows measurement of the extent to which a toxic chemical substance is  emitted into the environment or carried out in waste from a site. 
47 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Progress in the Ful llment of the Eco-First Commitments Progress in fulfi lling Eco-First commitments (Nov. 2008 to Feb. 2010) Very favorable Generally favorable Further study needed  Management of chemical substances and promotion of risk communication  Reviewing safety information on chemicals and conducting risk assessments -Proceeding favorably as planned -Approximately 40% of hazard assessment completed and risk assessments performed for 51 chemical substances Voluntarily inspecting the safety of HPV chemicals and conducting LRI activities (1)  Voluntary inspection of the safety of HPV chemicals -Conducted in cooperation with the world chemical industry and led the inspection on three substances, completing the  assessments for two substances *1                                                                         -The remaining substance (resorcinol) is under  nal assessment by the OECD. (2)   LRI -Participated in the LRI project implemented by the Japan Chemical Industry Association as leader of the planning and  management panel *2  Halving the release of substances subject to the PRTR Act into the air and water -Systematically reduced the amount released based on risk management -Achieved the initial target (50% reduction from the baseline year level) earlier than planned in  scal 2008 Enhancing information disclosure and risk communication -Published the Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report (in Japanese and English) and also the Report on the Environment,  Health and Safety by each individual Works on a regular basis -Published local PR newsletters, made school visits, accepted student interns, and engaged in dialogues with local resi- dents at each of our worksites Preventing global warming Improving unit energy consumption and reducing unit CO2 emissions at all Works -Unit energy consumption increased in  scal 2008 due to a decrease in production, but began to decrease in  scal 2009. -Implemented multifaceted energy conservation measures, including improved operation methods, process rationalization,  improvement of facility and equipment ef ciency, and ef cient use of energy in cooperation with neighboring companies Developing and making practical use of innovative energy conservation technologies to recover  previously unusable low-temperature heat (130C or below) generated by our petrochemical  plants and reuse it at manufacturing plants - Basic studies carried out to identify technological problems and set speci c targets jointly with universities -Helped NEDO implement its Eco Innovation project and made a national project proposal to the Japanese Agency for  Natural Resources and Energy. Continuously improving unit energy consumption in our logistics division -Continuing to implement measures to increase the rate of transportation by rail and ship and to upsize transport containers Reducing CO2 emissions by households in cooperation with the labor union  -Conducted a wide range of activities, including creating posters, introducing examples of energy conservation in the in- house magazine, opening a CSR webpage on the intranet, and distributing our environmental accounting book Creation of a recycling-based society Reducing the generation of industrial waste and land ll through recycling and other means  and achieving zero waste emissions - Made favorable progress in modifying manufacturing processes and recycling incineration ash Result        *3. Unit energy consumption / *4. Unit CO2 emission  *3  *4 *5 Reducing the generation of industrial waste and land ll / *6 Zero waste emissions  *5  *6 *1  2-tert-butyl-5-methylphenol and 2,2'-methylene-bis-(6-tert-butyl-4-methylphenol) *2  Commissioned expert research into endocrine disruption, carcinogenicity, immunotoxicity, more precise risk assessment,               and neurotoxicity, and held a meeting to report the research results. 
Responsible Care Activities 48 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Responsible Care       In its efforts to realize sustainable chemistry, Sumitomo  Chemical is promoting Responsible Care (RC) activities  based on its Corporate Policy on Safety, the Environment  and Product Quality and on the fundamental principle of  Making Safety the Top Priority. We will continue to con- duct active and systematic RC activities to ensure stable  zero-accident, zero-disaster operations and to promote  global environmental protection, chemical safety manage- ment, and communication with society. Thus, we seek to  raise societys expectations of and trust in the Company  and improve our competitiveness, while pursuing the  development of a wide range of industries and helping  people lead more ful lling and comfortable lives and con- tributing to the sustainable development of society. Promoting RC Activities Together with  Group Companies Corporate Policy on Safety, the Environment and  Product Quality      Sumitomo Chemical has set forth safety, the environ- ment, and product quality as top priorities for all phases of  its business activities in its Corporate Policy on Safety, the  Environment and Product Quality. This policy has been  communicated to all employees of Sumitomo Chemical  and its Group companies to ensure that each and every  employee is fully aware of it.  Policy on Responsible Care Activities      Sumitomo Chemical has summarized its key Respon- sible Care initiatives in its Policy on Responsible Care  Activities, which is incorporated into the speci c activity  targets and plans formulated annually by the Company  and each workplace. Corporate Policy on Safety, the Environment  and Product Quality Revised: November 1, 2005 (Established April 1, 1994) In conformity with Sumitomos Business Principles, our Company  ful lls its responsibility to develop, manufacture and supply a variety  of products that satisfy the fundamental necessities of human life and  contribute to the growth of society. Under the concept of Making  Safety the First Priority, which is fundamental to all the Companys op- erations, Sumitomo Chemical has based management of its activities  on the principles of (i) maintaining zero-accident and zero-injury op- erations, (ii) ensuring customer satisfaction, and (iii) promoting mutual  prosperity with society. Paying due respect to these principles, our Company is determined  to conduct all activities, including production, R&D, marketing & sales  and logistics, in accordance with the following policy related to safety,  the environment and product quality. 1. Maintain zero-accident and zero-injury operations and the safety of     neighboring communities and our employees. 2. Ascertain the safety of raw materials, intermediates and products,      and prevent our employees, distributors, customers and consumers      from being exposed to any possible hazard. 3. Supply high-quality products and services that satisfy customers      needs and ensure safety in their use. 4. Assess and reduce our environmental impact at all operational stag-     es, from product development to disposal, and undertake all practi-     cal environmental protection measures. All sections and employees of our Company shall be made fully aware  of the signi cance of this policy, and shall constantly strive to improve  operational performance, while at the same time abiding by all relevant  laws, regulations and standards. Hiroshi Hirose President Sumitomo Chemical Company, Limited Policy on Responsible Care Activities Revised: March 2, 2006 (Established: January 1995) Responsible Care Committee In accordance with the Corporate Policy on Safety, the Environment  and Product Quality, Sumitomo Chemical will strive to promote Re- sponsible Care activities in developing its business, and will also do its  utmost to achieve sustainable development and earn the trust of soci- ety. 1. We will achieve our zero-accident, zero-disaster targets to ensure     stable operations. 2. We will conduct risk management throughout the life cycle of our     products, throughout the stages of development, manufacturing,     transport and disposal, and strive to conserve the environment, and     ensure the safety and health of our employees as well as that of the    local community. 3. We will comply with all domestic and international laws and stan-    dards relating to safety and the environment, and strive to meet even     stricter targets than those legally required. 4. We will promote both risk reduction and accident prevention from the    perspectives of product safety and quality. 5. We will promote energy and resource conservation and seek to re-    duce our environmental impact. 6. We will implement the requisite education and training for our em-    ployees relating to safety, the environment and product quality, and    will promote effective Responsible Care activities. 7. We will be mindful of the interests of both local residents and regula-    tory authorities in connection to safety, the environment and product     quality, and will ful ll our responsibility to provide related information     through dialogue. 8. We will evaluate the content of our activities and seek to implement     improvements through Responsible Care audits pertaining to occupa-    tional health and safety, security and disaster prevention, environ-    mental protection, chemical safety, product safety and quality assur-    ance. 9. We will support the Responsible Care activities of Group companies,    contractors and other business partners, including located overseas. 
49 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 TOPIC Responsible Care Plan Do Check Act Society Communication The Sumitomo Chemical Groups Corporate Business Plan for Responsible Care      Sumitomo Chemical has formulated a three-year plan  for Responsible Care activities for the entire Sumitomo  Chemical Group in the fields of occupational safety and  health, industrial safety and disaster prevention, environ- mental protection, chemical safety, product safety, and  quality assurance. In this plan we clarify our medium-term  targets (for  scal 2010 to 2012) and main items for imple- mentation (see Figure below).      Based on this plan, each Group company formulates  its own medium-term and annual RC action plans and re- peats the PDCA cycle* to implement the plan and further  raise the level of their RC activities. In April 2010, we established a Chemical Safety Group  within the Responsible Care Offi  ce to improve our man- agement of chemical substances. This group will cooper- ate with our Environmental Health Science Laboratory to  ensure scientific management of chemical substances,  complying with relevant regulations both in Japan and  overseas, and encouraging volun- tary risk-based management of  chemicals. Launching a Chemical Safety Group  in the Responsible Care Offi  ce In March 2010, Sumitomo Chemical held its fourth RC Global Meeting  at its head offi  ce in Tokyo and also at the Chiba Works. This meeting  has been held annually for overseas Group companies since fiscal  2006, and a large number of employees from 19 overseas Group  companies involved in RC participated in the fourth meeting. At the  meeting, people from  Sumitomo Chemical  and overseas Group  companies reported  on the challenges and  topics related to their  RC activities and ac- tively exchanged opin- ions and comments. Holding Regular RC Global Meetings Formulating Group Standards for Responsible Care      In fiscal 2009, Sumitomo Chemical formulated its  Group standards for Responsible Care with the aim of  strengthening internal control and management ef ciency  throughout the Sumitomo Chemical Group. The standards  set out the basic Responsible Care requirements to be  met by the Group, including policies, measures, and pro- cedures. The Company is now raising employee aware- ness of the standards at both domestic and overseas  Group companies.      At present, each Group company is striving to improve  their RC management based on these standards, includ- ing enhancing their RC systems and establishing the nec- essary rules and regulations. VOICE Shinoi Sakata General Manager (Chemical Safety) Responsible Care Of ce Medium-term RC targets for the entire Group (1)  Occupational health and safety       Reducing labor accidents (2)  Industrial safety and disaster prevention       Zero fires and explosions (3)  Environmental protection       Reducing environmental impact (4)  Chemical safety       Improving management levels (5)  Product safety       Reducing PL risks (6)  Quality assurance       Reducing quality-related accidents        (including PL accidents) Medium-term and annual plans of each company  Implementation items (1)  Occupational health and safety   -Assessing risks and implementing measures (2)  Industrial safety and disaster prevention   -Assessing risks and implementing measures (3)  Environmental protection   -Setting specific reduction targets and imple- menting measures (4)  Chemical safety   -Compiling hazard data and using them for  risk assessment (5)  Product safety   -Assessing risks and implementing measures (6)  Quality assurance   -Establishing a quality assurance system Common measures (1)  Establishing the foundation (Applying Group       standards for Responsible Care and        formulating company rules) (2)  Risk management (HAZOP and PL risks) (3)  Education (developing Sumitomo Chemical        educational programs) (4)  Use of the PDCA cycle (5)  Compliance -Improving the identified problem areas -Reviewing the management system -Incorporating the results in the next plan -Internal RC audits -Audits on Group companies by  Sumitomo Chemicals RC Office *The PDCA cycle The PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Act) cycle is the process of making a plan, carrying it  out, evaluating the results, and improving the plan. Figure  The Sumitomo Chemical Groups Corporate Business Plan             for Responsible Care 
Responsible Care Activities 50 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Sustainable environmental management  Global environmental   protection  Establishment of a   recycling-based   society  Preservation of  the living   environment and   prevention of   health hazards Promotion of occupational  health and safety Promotion of disaster  prevention activities Promotion of chemical safety management Promotion of safety activities in logistics  Continuous improvement of  Responsible Care activities Strengtheningcorporate  governance Promotion of quality  assurance activities Promotion of sustainable  environmental management Prevention of global warming Prevention of ozone layer depletion Energy savings Waste reduction Reduction in water use Appropriate chemical substances  management Proper handling of PRTR substances Reduction in VOC emissions Prevention of soil and groundwater contamination PCB countermeasures Prevention of accidents causing   environmental contamination Prevention of occupational accidents Prevention of major accidents Ensuring chemical safety Ensuring safety, environmental pro- tection, and maintaining product  quality during logistics operations Use of audits to evaluate and  improve Responsible Care activities Strengthening of compliance Prevention of quality problems  (including PL problems) Making economic activities and  environmental protection compatible Reduction in CO2 emissions Reduction of CFC emissions Improvement in unit energy consumption Reduction in the amount of generated waste;  promotion of recycling Improvement in unit water usage Promotion of risk management according to the environmental risk Reduction in VOC emissions Promotion of soil and groundwater  contamination risk management Proper storage and disposal of PCB waste Reduction of environmental risks  involving operating activities Elimination of accidents resulting in lost workdays for em- ployees of Sumitomo Chemical and contractors/af liate  companies Use of Occupational Safety and Health Management Sys- tem (OSHMS) to reduce potential occupational safety risks Prevention of problems caused by human factors  Reduction of process-related risks Enhancement of safety information and proper  management of chemical substances Reducing risk of occupational accidents and injury in  logistics; Promotion of a transport system that exerts  less impact on the environment; Promotion of mea- sures to prevent quality irregularities in logistics Promotion of integrated Responsible Care activities  and Responsible Care audits throughout the Group Determination of priority areas for auditing: zero  accidents, measures to strengthen compliance Enhancing product safety activities Continuous improvement of all employees quality awareness Enhancing management at source Non-consolidated/ Group Non-consolidated Group Non-consolidated/Group Non-consolidated Group Non-consolidated Group Non-consolidated Non-consolidated Group Non-consolidated Non-consolidated/ Group Non-consolidated/ Group Non-consolidated Non-consolidated Non-consolidated Non-consolidated Non-consolidated Non-consolidated/ Group Non-consolidated Primary Responsible Care Initiatives: Targets and Progress  Environmental Protection Safety Quality  Assurance Auditing Category Target Measures Taken Object 
51 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 -Achieved de nite results for each of the items -Continued risk assessment work -Conducted follow-ups to ensure targets were achieved  -Continued studying environmental impact assessments based on JEPIX and  LCA methods -Continued trial implementation of MFCA -Improved unit CO2 emissions by 5.7% relative to the previous  scal year   (by 21.6% from  scal 1990) -Improved unit CO2 emissions by 3.1% relative to  scal 2002 -Promoted systematic replacement of refrigeration units -No coolant leakages occurred -Improved unit energy consumption by 6.3% relative to the previous  scal year    (by 17.4% from  scal 1990) -Improved unit energy consumption by 5.2% relative to  scal 2002 -Land ll disposal: Reduced the volume of waste disposed of in land ll by 3.9%  relative to the previous  scal year (83.3% reduction from  scal 1990) -Sea dumping: Decided to use aluminum hydroxide instead of bauxite as the  material for alumina products -Reduced the volume of waste disposed of in land ll by 66.8% relative to   scal 2002 -Improved unit water usage by 27.3% relative to  scal 1990 -Reduced total emissions by 61.6% relative to  scal 2002 -Reduced total emissions by 49.1% relative to  scal 2002 -Reduced VOC emissions by 14.9% relative to  scal 2000 -Soil contamination survey, evaluations, and required remediation currently  near completion -Monitoring of groundwater near boundaries has con rmed that levels of haz- ardous materials are below those stipulated by environmental standards -Continued monitoring of groundwater -Continued the strict recovery and appropriate storage of PCB waste -Completed pre-registration with JESCO: Treatment completed at some  Works (Sumitomo Chemical) -Achieved the target of zero accidents and major problems -There were two accidents resulting in lost workdays at Sumitomo Chemical  and three in total at its contractors/af liate companies, and thus the targets  were not achieved. -Sumitomo Chemical: Frequency rate of lost-workday injuries: 0.16; severity  rate of lost-workday injuries: 0.006 -Contractors/affiliate companies: Frequency rate of lost-workday injuries:  0.29; severity rate of lost-workday injuries: 0.012 -Occurrence of two serious industrial accidents (chlorine leakage) -Conducted process risk assessment and implemented safety measures -Conducted health and environment risk assessments of gases before treatment  and after emission into the atmosphere, environmental risk assessments for ef uent  and discharged water, occupational safety risk assessments of chemical substances  handled by the Company, and consumer safety risk assessments of newly developed  chemicals, and worked to improve the risk assessment levels -Promoted voluntary programs to compile a database of existing findings  and information, and promoted operation of a new comprehensive chemical  product management system (SuCCESS) to manage the collected safety in- formation appropriately and make more effective use of it -Occurrence of two lost-workday accidents at partner logistics companies -Improved unit energy consumption by 0.2% relative to the previous  scal year -Reduced the number of logistics quality irregularities below the target level   (two serious incidents) -Increased the ef ciency of Responsible Care audits by conducting audits of  some Group companies in two teams, in response to an increase in the fre- quency of audits -Reviewed checklist and improved risk detection level -Achieved zero major product quality problems; formulated a new evaluation  method for quality risk; increased awareness of the Taguchi method to en- sure stable quality from the design stage -Promote measures to ful ll the commitments made under the Ministry of the  Environments Eco-First program -Formulate medium- to long-term emission reduction targets for PRTR sub- stances and VOCs based on risk assessments -Meet the environmental protection and management targets for the Group -Study the possibility of introducing environmental ef ciency indicators within the Group -Introduce material  ow cost accounting (MFCA) on a trial basis -Reduce unit CO2 emissions from fossil fuels for captive consumption  by 20% relative to  scal 1990 levels by  scal 2015 -Reduce unit CO2 emissions by 6% relative to  scal 2002 by  scal 2010 -Eliminate the use of refrigeration units that use speci ed CFCs  as coolants by  scal 2025 -Reduce unit energy consumption by 25% relative to  scal 1990 by  scal 2010 -Reduce unit energy consumption by 9.5% relative to  scal 2002 by  s- cal 2010. -Reduce volume of waste disposed of in land ll by 90% relative to  scal 1990  level by  scal 2010 -Stop the disposal of red bauxite through sea dumping by  scal 2015 -Reduce volume of waste disposed of in land ll by 48.9% relative to   scal 2002 levels by  scal 2010 -Reduce unit water usage by 25% relative to  scal 1990 levels by  scal 2010 -Reduce total emissions (into the air and water) of substances subject  to the PRTR Act by 50% relative to  scal 2002 levels by  scal 2010 -Reduce total emissions (into the air and water) of substances subject  to the PRTR Act by 60% relative to  scal 2002 levels by  scal 2010 -Reduce VOC emissions by 30% relative to  scal 2000 levels by  scal 2010 -Keep hazardous materials strictly within Company premises and  conduct the required inspections and improvements. Company prem- ises to be kept under continuous monitoring/supervision. -Promote appropriate storage and recovery of PCB waste and com- plete PCB waste treatment by March 2014 -Completely eliminate accidents and major problems -Frequency rate of lost-workday injuries: <=0.1 -Severity rate of lost-workday injuries: <=0.01 -Frequency rate of lost-workday injuries = (number of lost-workday  injuries/man-hours) x 1,000,000 -Severity rate of lost-workday injuries = (number of lost-workdays/ man-hours) x 1,000 -Eliminate major accidents -Conduct various studies and risk assessments and enhance safety  information related to Responsible Care for chemical products -Promote advanced measures for management of chemical substances -Achieve zero accidents resulting in lost workdays at partner logistics companies -Reduce annual unit energy consumption by 1% -Achieve the management target for logistics quality irregularities  (Reduce major incidents to eight or fewer) -Review the Responsible Care audit system -Reinforce Responsible Care audits at Sumitomo Chemical and  its Group companies -Achieve zero major product quality problems Primary Responsible Care Initiatives: Targets and Progress  Target Performance in Fiscal 2009 Achievement  Status                        : Target achieved or satisfactory progress  : Almost achieved  : To be achieved 
Responsible Care Activities 52 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 VOICE Group Company Initiatives The Sumitomo Chemical Group is making a concerted effort to encourage and enhance Responsible Care activities  on a global scale.     Koei Chemical has been manufacturing a wide  range of unique organic chemical products in re- sponse to societys needs for over 90 years since its  foundation in 1917. We deliver various products while  conducting RC activities to ensure safety and quality  and to protect the environment and human health, and  these activities form the cornerstone of our business  management.     We conduct a range of activities at our plants  based on our basic policy of Making Safety the First  Priority. For example, in introducing new products and  equipment, our plants always examine issues related  to safety, the environment, and quality before start- ing; hold meetings to review past failures and learn  lessons; and conduct disaster prevention drills jointly  with local  re departments.     In  scal 2010, we created a new plant reform pro- gram, including activities to promote environmental  safety, in order to raise our levels of safety and envi- ronmental protection.     We work to avoid any noncompliance with laws and  regulations on chemical safety. We check the legal  requirements for chemicals when we receive inquiries  on them and are building a system that allows us to  ensure legal compliance for all products for export.     In 1998, we also began publishing a report on safe- ty, the environment and product quality each year to  outline our RC activities. We will continue to promote  RC activities under the corporate slogan We love the  Earth, and we love chemistry, aiming to earn ever  more trust from society. Specifi c Initiatives to Further Enhance RC Since 2004, Koei Chemical has been holding monthly meet- ings for all departments to review one or two examples of  its past failures, aiming to prevent the recurrence of similar  safety, environmental, and product quality issues through- out the company and also to pass on our technologies to  younger employees. At the meeting held in April 2010, we  reviewed some cases that could have resulted in serious  incidents related to operating the reactors and managing  product analysis. At the meetings, participants exchange  candid opinions and discuss in a sometimes tense but excit- ing atmosphere. We make the meeting worthwhile by fol- lowing up on results and checking whether they are being  used eff ectively in order to improve our standards of work.  In response to concerns that our older employees might  not be able to pass on all our technologies to younger  employees before retiring, we began building a data- base of the experience and expertise accumulated in the  company starting in 2005. All employees can access this  database for information on items including occupational  health and safety, industrial safety and disaster prevention,  environmental protection, production technologies, and  equipment maintenance. We also use this database in our  technology training, where our technologies are passed  on directly from older to younger  employees. We will continue these  activities to ensure safe plant man- agement. Monthly Meeting to Review Failures and  Technology Training Koei Chemical Co., Ltd. Hisashi Moriyama Manager, Responsible Care Of ce Koei Chemical Co., Ltd. Koei Chemicals Chiba Plant Norio Nawa Deputy Plant Manager Koei Chemical Co., Ltd. 
53 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010     Dalian Sumika Chemphy Chemical (DSC) celebrat- ed its seventh anniversary in April 2010, and it is al- ready  ve and a half years since it started operations  in December 2004. DSC manufactures intermediates  for agricultural chemicals and has been maintaining  stable full operation for several years while establish- ing a record of zero accidents or disasters since its  start.     As a result of our RC activities, we received the  highest evaluation and commendation in the inspec- tions on health and safety conducted by the Chinese  authorities for two consecutive years in 2008 and  2009. Also in 2009, at the first meeting held to an- nounce the introduction of RC in the Dalian Develop- ment Area, DSC gave a presentation on its RC activi- ties as a representative of local companies. In this  presentation, we placed an emphasis on one idea we  always bear in mind, which is that the damage caused  to facilities by a fatal accident or environmental prob- lem can always be recovered by spending money,  but people killed in an accident can never be brought  back to life and the relationship of trust with local resi- dents and communities can be lost in a moment.      Fatal accidents tend to be the result of leakages  and clogging, which we work to prevent through on- site patrols to detect initial leakages and clogging  using all  ve senses. We make concerted efforts fo- cused on investigating the basic causes of the prob- lems detected and preventing their recurrence.     Recently, the employees themselves have created  a health and safety education handbook that illus- trates the basic safety rules with photos, and easy-to- understand safety signs are now posted not only for  employees but also for visitors. We are also publish- ing a safety newspaper.     To communicate with local residents, we participat- ed in local dialogue meetings to explain our environ- mental measures and also invited local residents on  tours of our plant to improve mutual understanding.     Meanwhile, within the company, we held a brief- ing for all employees to educate them on what they  should know as members of the Sumitomo Chemi- cal Group, including Sumitomos history as well as  overcoming environmental problems and also ful lling  social responsibility and contributing to local commu- nities, principles that have formed the basis of Sumi- tomo Chemicals business since its start. This brie ng  allows us to convey Sumitomos Business Principles  and Business Philosophy to employees.     We aim to become a model chemical plant for the  other plants in Dalian and to be a  company that is truly accepted by  the local community. Becoming a Model Chemical Plant for Other Plants in Dalian Group Company Initiatives Dalian Sumika Chemphy Chemical Co., Ltd. (DSC) All employees celebrating the  fth anniversary of the start  of operations Meeting to announce the introduction of RC held in the Dalian  Development Area (May 2009) Mitsuaki Yamada General Manager Dalian Sumika Chemphy Chemical Co., Ltd. 
Responsible Care Activities 54 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Environmental Performance of the Sumitomo Chemical Group  (Environmental Impact and Environmental Accounting) Sumitomo Chemical collects and totals the Groups environmental data, including data on its energy and resource  consumption, production quantities, and environmental impact (e.g. release of pollutants into the air and water).  We also introduced environmental accounting for the Group and continuously publicize the results. INPUT Energy and Resources  2 Energy Exhaustible resources Water Electricity Gas/Fuel (Calculated as kl of crude oil) Hydrocarbon compounds Metals (excluding rare metals)3 Rare metals 4 Industrial water Drinking water Seawater Groundwater Other water OUTPUT Product Manufacturing and Environmental Impact Products (Calculated on the basis of  ethylene production) 5 Water pollutant emissions COD Nitrogen Phosphorus Substances subject to  the PRTR Act Waste material Atmospheric emissions Waste generated Landfi ll  (fi nal disposal)    On-site landfi ll    External landfi ll Red bauxite sea dumping Greenhouse gases (six gases) 6    CO2    N2O    HFC    PFC    Methane    Sulfur hexafl uoride Emissions from energy use  (CO2)    Captive fuel consumption 7    Purchased electricity     and steam Others    NOx     SOx     Soot and dust    Substances subject to the     PRTR Act  Sumitomo Chemical Group Use of PCB/CFCs 266 37.5 0 37.5 393 67 7.4 0 7.4 393 2,281 482 1,799 1,429 395 1,034 Thousands of kl Thousands of kl 1,416.7 68.3 1.0 1,321.2 23.6 2.7 557.7 64.9 0.4 469.7 20.4 2.3 10,000 tons 10,000 tons Millions of tons Millions of tons 317 10.3 0.017 1,421 1,942 48 68 1,310 1,897 46 34 242 158 10,000 tons 10,000 tons Thousands of tons Thousands of tons Tons Tons 4,411 4,364 46 0.4 0 0.1 0 3,787 2,159 1,628 2,622 1,094 160 411 4,710 3,373 269 1,258 Tons Tons 6,368 4,533 1,835 Thousands of tons of CO2 Thousands of tons of CO2 Sumitomo Chemical Group 1 Sumitomo Chemical 290 9.6 0.004 1.  Sumitomo Chemical and the following 16 domestic Group companies: Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., Koei Chemical Co., Ltd., Taoka Chemical Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Joint Electric  Power Co., Ltd., Sumika Color Co., Ltd., Nihon Medi-Physics Co., Ltd., Nippon A&L Inc., Thermo Co., Ltd., SanTerra Co., Ltd., Sumika Kakoushi Co., Ltd., Asahi Chemical Co., Ltd., Shinto Paint  Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Dow Ltd., Sumika Bayer Urethane Co., Ltd., Nihon Oxirane Co., Ltd., and Sumika Agrotech Co., Ltd.  2. See page 18 of the DATA BOOK for performance data on energy consumption, CO2 emissions, water usage, and land ll disposal amounts for major overseas Group companies  3. Calculations include the following 12 metals: iron, gold, silver, copper, zinc, aluminum, lead, platinum, titanium, palladium, gallium, and lithium.  4.  Calculations include the following seven rare metals: nickel, chromium, tungsten, cobalt, molybdenum, manganese, and vanadium.  5. Certain assumptions were made in calculations due to the dif culty of obtaining weight-based  gures for some products.  6.  The method used for calculating CO2 emissions (i.e. CO2 emission coef cient, types of greenhouse gases targeted for calculation, and emission sources) has remained unchanged since the  calculation of environmental performance data was started.  7. CO2 emissions originating from energy (electricity and steam) sold outside the Sumitomo Chemical Group are not included. Emissions from Sumitomo Joint Electric Power Co., Ltd., how- ever, are included as sales of energy from its primary business. Primary Environmental Performance (Fiscal 2009) No. of electrical devices containing PCBs PCB volume  No. of refrigeration units using specifi ed CFCs as coolant 1,341 units653 units   40.7 36.1       80 units 25 units 
55 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Environmental Performance of the Sumitomo Chemical Group TOPIC Evaluation of Environmental Protection Costs and  Economic Effects through Environmental Accounting      Sumitomo Chemical continuously gathers and evalu- ates data on environment-related expenses, investments,  and economic results in line with the Companys environ- mental accounting system introduced in  scal 2000. Items Pertaining to Environmental Accounting (1) Period      Fiscal 2009 (April 1, 2009 to March 31, 2010) (2) Scope     Sumitomo Chemical and 17 major consolidated subsid- iaries (12 in Japan and  ve outside Japan)* (3) Composition (Classi cation)      Based on Ministry of the Environment guidelines (4) Independent assurance      Conducted by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. (5) Outline of the results (investment and expenses)      Investment increased by 2 billion yen compared with   scal 2008, due to the establishment of wastewater treat- ment facilities and the installation of emitted gas treatment  facilities at the synthetic rubber manufacturing plants.      Expenses increased by 900 million yen year on year,  due to increases in soil remediation costs and in develop- ment costs for proton conducting  lms for fuel cells. Business Area Costs Pollution Prevention Costs Global Environmental Protection Costs Resource Recycling Costs Upstream/Downstream Costs Administrative Costs R&D Costs Social Activity Costs Environmental Remediation Costs Total 11 8 (0) (3) 0 0 0 0 0 11 52 (50) (0) (2) 0 0 0 0 0 52 167 (120) (0) (47) 0 6 43 5 0 221 157 (114) (0) (43) 0 6 63 4 11 241 24 (20) (0) (4) 3 0 0 0 0 27 66 (63) (1) (2) 0 0 0 0 0 66 248 (168) (4) (76) 2 12 44 8 0 314 229 (156) (3) (70) 2 11 63 7 11 323 Prevention of air pollution, water pollution, soil contamination, noise  pollution, odors, ground subsidence, etc. Prevention of global warming and ozone layer depletion, and other measures Resource and energy conservation, water conservation and rainwater  usage, waste reduction/disposal treatment, recycling, etc. Green purchasing, recycling, recovery, remanufacturing and appropriate treatment of  products, recycling costs associated with containers and packaging, environmentally  friendly products and services, etc. Costs associated with environmental education, environmental management systems,  the monitoring and measuring of the environmental impact of business activities and  products, environmental organization operations, etc. Development of products with attention to environmental safety, research  into energy-saving processes, etc. Protection of the natural environment and enhancement of its scenic beauty and  greenery, support for community initiatives aimed at environmental protection,  support for environmental preservation groups, environment-related paid  contributions and surcharges, etc. Environmental rehabilitation of contaminated environments and other environmental  damage, reserve funds to cover environmental recovery, etc. Breakdown Classification Details of Major Initiatives Fiscal 2008 Non-consolidated Investment Expenses Investment Expenses Investment Expenses Investment Expenses Consolidated Non-consolidated Consolidated Fiscal 2009 Reduced costs through  energy conservation Reduced costs through  resource conservation Reduced costs through  recycling activitiess Total 8 8 29 45 9 10 31 50 6 12 23 41 7 12 24 43 Fiscal 2008 Non-consolidated Consolidated Fiscal 2009 Non-consolidated Consolidated Results Improving the Cost Effi  ciency of Environmental Protection  In fi scal 2009, we began implementing measures  to improve the cost effi  ciency of our environmen- tal protection measures by making sure that all  activities were as cost eff ective as possible. From  fi scal 2008 to 2009, the annual total output was  severely affected by a decrease in production  volumes and as a result the cost effi  ciency of our  environmental protection activities decreased. In  response, we will implement more eff ective mea- sures by analyzing and studying the breakdown  of costs and reviewing each item to determine  its importance. In fi scal 2009, we decided to cal- culate the cost efficiency of our environmental  protection as the ratio of annual total production  value to total environmental protection costs, in  order better to reflect actual production activi- ties in the calculation, and we have now applied  this calculation method retrospectively. *17 major consolidated subsidiaries Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd.; Koei Chemical Co., Ltd.; Taoka Chemical  Co., Ltd.; Sumitomo Joint Electric Power Co., Ltd.; Sumika Color Co., Ltd.; Nihon  Medi-Physics Co., Ltd.; Nippon A&L Inc.; Thermo Co., Ltd.; SanTerra Co., Ltd.;  Sumika Kakoushi Co., Ltd.; Nihon Oxirane Co., Ltd.; Sumika Agrotech Co., Ltd.;  Dongwoo Fine-Chem Co., Ltd.; Sumitomo Chemical (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.; The  Polyole n Company (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.; Sumika Technology Co., Ltd.; and Su- mika Electronic Materials (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. Environmental Protection Cost Economic Effects (Unit: 100 million yen) (Unit: 100 million yen) 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 100 104.6 101.3 82.8 05 06 07 08 09 88.2 Base year Figures are index values05100 Cost Ef ciency of Environmental  Protection Measures 
Responsible Care Activities 56 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Ehime & Ohe Works Chiba Works Osaka Works Tsutomu Konaka General Manager  Ehime Works Environmental accounting Input Output Fiscal 2009 Environmental Performance and Other Key Results 557 million litres  565 thousand tons  84 million tons Energy*2 Exhaustible resources Water Products*3 CO2 *4 (atmosphere)    NOx   (atmosphere) SOx  (atmosphere) COD  (water) Landfi ll amount 628 thousand tons 2,161 thousand tons 616 tons 481 tons 885 tons 5,878 tons Investment Expenses Economic eff ect 3.79 billion yen 8.2 billion yen 2.58 billion yen Main products Propylene oxide, styrene monomer and other or- ganic chemical products, polyethylene, polypropyl- ene and other synthetic resins, and synthetic rubber  No. of employees*11,319 Message from the General Manager At the Chiba Works,  in our efforts to achieve the  targets of our new Corporate Business Plan, we  work to accomplish the  ve zeros (zero accidents  and disasters, zero environmental problems, zero  quality problems, zero serious equipment failures,  and zero manufacturing losses) and create greater  value in order to ful ll our four missions (ensuring  safe and stable operations, boosting competitive- ness, enhancing R&D, and strengthening our moth- er plant and research laboratory functions), aiming  to achieve further global growth. Yasuhiko Kitaura General Manager  Chiba Works Osamu Maruyama General Manager  Osaka Works Ehime Works Main products Ammonia derivatives, chlorine derivatives, sulfur  derivatives, aluminum and alumina derivatives,  acrylic resins, vinyl chloride resins, engineering  plastics, and pharmaceutical intermediates No. of employees*1967 Message from the General Manager In making a further leap toward our 100th anniver- sary in 2013, all of us at the Ehime Works will make  concerted efforts to achieve our zero-accident and  zero-disaster targets, environmental protection,  and communication with society, thereby gaining  the greater trust of customers and local residents  and becoming a trusted Works here in this city that  is the birthplace of Sumitomo Chemical. Ohe Works Main products Optical functional films and heat-resistant Li-ion  battery separator No. of employees*1518 Message from the General Manager Together with Sumika Assembly Techno Co., Ltd.,  we will contribute to bettering peoples lives by  providing world-class products. To this end, all our  employees continue to demonstrate teamwork,  giving first priority to safety, the environment and  product quality and we are committed to building a  corporate culture that can continue to win the trust  of local communities and customers. Main products Pharmaceutical bulk and intermediates, photore- sists used in the manufacture of semiconductors  and display materials, polymer additives, dyestuffs,  and agricultural fungicides No. of employees*1535 Message from the General Manager To continue to gain the trust of our business part- ners and local residents, all employees of the  Osaka Works are striving to maintain zero acci- dents and disasters and to become a worksite that  is friendly to both people and the environment. As  a basis for these activities, we encourage commu- nication with local communities through plant tours,  school science visits, and support for sporting  events.   Environmental accounting Input Output Fiscal 2009 Environmental Performance and Other Key Results 795 million litres  2,390 thousand tons  447million tons Energy*2 Exhaustible resources Water Products*3 CO2*4 (atmosphere)    NOx   (atmosphere) SOx  (atmosphere) COD  (water) Landfi ll amount 886 thousand tons  1,992 thousand tons 1,834 tons 431 tons 107 tons 18 tons Investment Expenses Economic eff ect 1.05 billion yen  4.59 billion yen 0.18 billion yen Environmental accounting Input Output Fiscal 2009 Environmental Performance and Other Key Results 20 million litres  6 thousand tons 0.9 million tons Energy*2 Exhaustible resources Water Products*3 CO2  *4 (atmosphere)    NOx   (atmosphere) SOx  (atmosphere) COD  (water) Landfi ll amount 13 thousand tons  39 thousand tons 20 tons < 0.1 tons 102 tons 150 tons Investment Expenses Economic eff ect 10 million yen 760 million yen 160 million yen Ehime & Ohe Works *1.  Number of employees: As of March 31, 2010 *2. Energy (1,000 kl): Calculated as crude oil equivalent *3. Products (10,000 tons): Calculated as ethylene equivalent *4. CO2 (10,000 tons): Including CO2 from energy use, environmental processing, and other processes  Environmental Performance at Works (Environmental Impact and Environmental Accounting) Kazushi Tan General Manager  Ohe Works 
57 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Oita Works Misawa Works Okayama Plant Gifu Plant Hiroyuki Takahashi General Manager  Oita Works Shinichiro Nagata General Manager  Misawa Works Norio Kawamura General Manager  Gifu Plant Tetsuhiko Watanabe General Manager  Okayama Plant Environmental Performance of the Sumitomo Chemical Group Main products Agricultural insecticides, herbicides and fungi- cides, and polymer additives No. of employees*1319 Message from the General Manager The Oita Works, which is approached along a  road lined with Japanese cinnamon trees, cel- ebrated its 70th anniversary last year. We have  made this an opportunity to actively take on the  challenge of implementing our plant policies and  achieving our aspirations for 10 years from now.  We work daily to continue to win the trust of cus- tomers and society based on cooperation with  local residents, under our policy of Making Safety  the First Priority Main products Pharmaceutical bulk and intermediates No. of employees*1151 Message from the General Manager  It has been 39 years since the Gifu Plant started  operation. We give  rst priority to safe and stable  operations and are making a concerted effort to  provide high-quality pharmaceutical chemicals  that satisfy customers and that they can use with  peace of mind.  Main products Public health insecticides and agricultural insecti- cides No. of employees*1126 Message from the General Manager The Misawa Works manufactures products for the  life science  eld in harmony with local communi- ties under the slogan Ongoing growth for the fu- ture. All of our employees are highly aware of the  environment and product quality and are commit- ted daily to delivering safe and reliable products  to users based on safe and stable operations. Main products Pharmaceutical bulk and intermediates No. of employees*1154 Message from the General Manager The Okayama Plant will soon celebrate the 95th  anniversary of its operations in the Kojima district,  a famous production center for brand jeans located  within the Setonai-kai National Park area. We are  manufacturing pharmaceuticals on commission  based on safe and stable operations. All employees  are endeavoring together to make our plant friendly  to both people and the planet and harmonize with  nature, while improving our brand power. Environmental accounting Input Output Fiscal 2009 Environmental Performance and Other Key Results 29 million litres  17 thousand tons 20 million tons Energy*2 Exhaustible resources Water Products*3 CO2  *4 (atmosphere)    NOx   (atmosphere) SOx  (atmosphere) COD  (water) Landfi ll amount 24 thousand tons  90 thousand tons 41 tons 164 tons 180 tons 1,037 tons Investment Expenses Economic eff ect 150 million yen  1.82 billion yen 230 million yen Environmental accounting Input Output Fiscal 2009 Environmental Performance and Other Key Results 14 million litres  3 thousand tons 1.5 million tons Energy*2 Exhaustible resources Water Products*3 CO2 *4 (atmosphere)    NOx   (atmosphere) SOx  (atmosphere) COD  (water) Landfi ll amount 8 thousand tons  39 thousand tons 50 tons 11 tons 14 tons 9 tons Investment Expenses Economic eff ect 110 million yen  470 million yen 20 million yen Environmental accounting Input Output Fiscal 2009 Environmental Performance and Other Key Results 5 million litres   7 thousand tons 1.4 million tons Energy*2 Exhaustible resources Water Products*3 CO2  *4 (atmosphere)    NOx   (atmosphere) SOx  (atmosphere) COD  (water) Landfi ll amount 5 thousand tons  14 thousand tons 22 tons 5 tons 6 tons 294 tons Investment Expenses Economic eff ect < 10 million yen  390 million yen 30 million yen Environmental accounting Input Output Fiscal 2009 Environmental Performance and Other Key Results 9 million litres  4 thousand tons 2.3 million tons Energy*2 Exhaustible resources Water Products*3 CO2  *4 (atmosphere)    NOx   (atmosphere) SOx  (atmosphere) COD  (water) Landfi ll amount 16 thousand tons  29 thousand tons 39 tons 2 tons 16 tons 41 tons Investment Expenses Economic eff ect 30 million yen  320 million yen 780 million yen 
Responsible Care Activities 58 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010      Sumitomo Chemical is actively implementing speci c  measures to improve its productivity and reduce its envi- ronmental impact. These measures include the systematic  reduction of environmental impact to reduce environmental  risk, examination of the practical use of environmental ef-  ciency indicators and environmental accounting methods  and the sharing of environmental impact reduction targets  with Group companies both in Japan and overseas. Reducing Environmental Impact to Reduce  Environmental Risk Managing the risks associated with substances newly controlled under the PRTR Act     Among the substances that have been newly desig- nated under the PRTR Act following the revision of the law  in November 2008, we have begun assessing the environ- Reducing Group-wide Environmental Impact  Reducing Group-Wide Environmental Impact  (1)  Assessing environmental impact using JEPIX     In  scal 2009 as in the previous  scal year, we made  an integrated assessment of environmental impact using  JEPIX*2 and continued with the relevant evaluations and  analyses. We will continue to make detailed assessments  to verify the effectiveness of the JEPIX approach (Figure 3). mental risks for approximately 50 substances handled by  Sumitomo Chemical, and have been working to strengthen  management of these risks throughout the Company.     In addition, we have made important improvements  to Sumitomo Chemicals own independently developed  PRTR totaling system, in which the Head Of ce networks  with other sites, to further improve the accuracy of data  and lighten the workload (Figure 1). Reducing VOC Emissions Based on Risk Assessments     For all VOCs*1 handled by Sumitomo Chemical, including  hexane, we began to study setting new medium- to long- term emissions targets by evaluating VOC concentrations  using the ozone creation potential as an indicator and by  prioritizing various anti-emission measures (Figure 2). Promoting Sustainable Environmental Management Sumitomo Chemical aims to achieve an even higher level of sustainable environmental management. Description Surveying production and treatment volumes Improving company-wide totaling system Standardizing calculation method Measuring concentrations at control points Risk assessment Quantifying reduction by substance Formulating specific reduction plan and schedule Setting new targets Identifying results Notifying governmental authorities 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 2009 2010 2011 No. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Studying improvement  measures Implementing  improvement measures Launching new targets  0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 20XX 2010 2000 Emissions (tons) FY 3,927 2,749 Base year  (Present target FY)  (Medium- to long-term  target FY) Studying formulation of new  targets based on scientific  assessment method Target 30% reduction Figure 1   Improving the Management of Substances Subject to the PRTR Act Based on Their Environmental Risk Figure 2   Medium- to Long-Term VOC Emissions Reduction *1   VOC Volatile organic compounds (VOCs), including toluene, xylene, benzene, and  a variety of other substances, enter the atmosphere in a gaseous state and  cause various forms of air pollution, including photochemical smog. *2   JEPIX JEPIX (Environmental Policy Priorities Index for Japan): This method, which em- ploys a uniform single indicator called   Ecopoints to evaluate environmental  impact, is derived from the Swiss LCIA Eco Scarcity methodology. The current  method evaluates the discrepancy between targets (e.g. laws and environmental  policies) and actual conditions based on material  ow data. 
59 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 (2)  Sharing Environmental Protection Management        Targets throughout the Group         (For details, see page 17 of the DATA BOOK.)     Sumitomo Chemical shares the targets for major envi- ronmental protection management items with 15 Group  companies in Japan and takes specific measures to im- prove environmental performance (Figure 4). We are also  implementing similar initiatives with overseas Group com- panies. Promoting Sustainable Environmental Management Enhancing LCA for Products and Processes (at Plants)      For more practical and effective use of LCA*3 data (in- cluding CFP*4 assessment specialized for CO2) both inside  and outside the Company, we use the LCA software (JE- MAI-LCA Pro) from the Japan Environmental Management  Association for Industry as our standard calculation tool.  We are studying how to standardize (universalize) the use  of LCA in the Company and work systematically to imple- ment it across all divisions. Trial Evaluation of Material Flow Cost Accounting (MFCA)     From September 2008 to February 2009, Sumitomo  Chemical participated in an MFCA*5 introduction dem- onstration project supported by the Japanese Ministry of  Economy, Trade and Industry. In this project, the Compa- ny implemented MFCA on a trial basis at its manufacturing  facilities for pharmaceutical intermediates. Based on the  knowledge and experience gained through this trial, we  are now evaluating the effectiveness of the accounting  method and continuing detailed studies on how to utilize  the method more widely.     In  scal 2009, we held seminars and lectures on the trial  results and widely disclosed and announced related infor- mation by contributing articles to professional journals. Lectures: Jan. 2009: MFCA dissemination seminar (organized by Sumitomo Chemical) Dec. 2009: National meeting of equipment management                  (organized by the Japan Institute of Plant Maintenance) Jan. 2010: Meeting on recent trends in ISO 14051 MFCA international standards                   (organized by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) May 2010: Seminar held by Material Flow Cost Accounting Forum Japan Contributions to professional journals: Mar. 2010: March issue of Kankyo Kanri [Environmental Management]                  (published by the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry) June 2010: June issue of Plant Engineer                  (published by the Japan Institute of Plant Maintenance) 0 300 600 Ecopoints108 05 06 07 08 09 04 Fiscal year 69 545 66 227 183 75 534 52 229 178 76 544 41 242 185 78 145 243 43 509 76 104 230 24 434 460 22 204 160 74 Figure 3   Breakdown of Aggregate Values for Environmental Impact (Ecopoints) (for the Sumitomo Chemical Group) Global warming (six gases): Total emissions of six greenhouse gases Air quality: Total emissions of substances that destroy the ozone layer,  hazardous air pollutants, photochemical oxidants, NOx, and SPM10 Figure 4   Performance Improvement Targets and Actual Results                   for Sumitomo Chemical and Group Companies in Japan Unit Energy  Consumption Index Substances subject to  the PRTR Act Emissions  (into the air and water) Unit CO2 Emission  Index Waste land ll 0 90 100  05 02 06 07 08 09 100 10 94.7 93.8 90.5 94.4 94.8 98.6 Target FY Base year 9.5 improvement Figures are index values02100 *3   LCA Lifecycle assessment (LCA): A method for evaluating the environmental impact  of products and services throughout their lifecycles *4   CFP  Carbon footprint (CFP): Identi cation of lifecycle CO2 emissions from products  and services *5   MFCA Material flow cost accounting (MFCA): An environmental cost accounting  method that identi es input costs of materials, processing, electricity, fuel and  others, and compares them with the energy and resources lost in manufacturing  processes Water quality: Total emissions of BOD, COD, nitrogen, and phosphorus Waste: Amount of waste disposed of in land lls Total 0 90 100  100 98.9 97.1 94.0 97.0 101.6 96.9 6.0 improvement Figures are index values02100 05 02 06 07 08 09 10 Target FY Base year 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 Tons (100) (55.4) (53.0) (40.0) 2,602 1,441 1,379 1,041 1,613 1,340 (62.0) (51.5) (50.9) 1,325 60.0 reduction Figures in parentheses are index values 02100 05 02 06 07 08 09 10 Target FY Base year 0 5 10 15 10,000 tons (100) (79.0) (62.1) (51.1) 11.2 8.9 7.0 5.7 (66.1) (36.5) (33.2) 7.4 4.1 3.7 48.9 reduction Figures in parentheses are index values02100 05 02 06 07 08 09 10 Target FY Base year  In  scal 2008, increases in both unit energy consumption index and unit CO2  emission index were due to decreases in production Volumes. In  scal 2009, both  indices improved following recovery in production volumes.  Data for  scal 2005 to 2008 have been revised to increase accuracy  Water quality improved  through measures to reduce  nitrogen in wastewater con- taining ammonia.   Air quality deteriorated  from increase in HCFC emis- sions. 
Responsible Care Activities 60 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010     Sumitomo Chemical has chosen the following items as  specific targets in the field of environmental protection  and is strengthening measures to achieve them in order  to make tangible improvements in its environmental per- formance. These items include promoting climate change  prevention measures and energy-environment strategies,  advancement and standardization of the environmental  performance totaling system, improvements to the environ- mental ef ciency indicator and improvements to and stable  use of the environmental efficiency evaluation method,  expanded use of the environmental accounting method,  identifying the optimum mix of appropriate legal compli- ance measures and voluntary activities, and promotion of  Group-wide environmental protection targets. Energy Conservation and the Prevention of Global Warming Summary of Initiatives     We aim to achieve the worlds highest level of energy  ef ciency, and are achieving de nite results by improving  our operating methods and the ef ciency of our facilities  and equipment while rationalizing our processes.     We are also studying proactive and effective forward- looking measures for responding to CO2-related issues,  and are leveraging our strengths in advanced technologies  to develop processes and products that will contribute  widely to reductions in CO2 emissions. VOICE Environmental Protection Activities At the Chiba Works, we are using the active sludge method to  treat wastewater at the wastewater treatment facilities. This  method consumes large quantities of electricity in driving  the air blowers that pump air into the aeration tank and break  down organic matter in the wastewater. To reduce the power  used, we installed highly effi  cient aeration equipment, which  diff uses air widely into every corner of the tank. As a result, we  were able to reduce the use of air, which led to a reduction of  roughly 30% in the power used to drive the air blowers. In fi scal  2009, we reduced our power consumption by approximately  1,000 MWH in total, which is equivalent to a reduction in en- ergy use of 260 kl in terms of  crude oil (corresponding to  approximately 500 tons of  CO2 emissions). Total  Emissions FY Energy Origin Environmental Treatment Fossil Fuel  Consumption Purchased  Electricity/Steam Incineration Effluent Process 10,000 tons of CO2 1990 2006 2007 2008 2009 368.7 479.4 471.1 435.1 436.4 218.4 249.6 224.8 211.0 215.9 103.8 159.9 176.9 165.5 162.8 28.2 29.9 28.2 21.8 20.0 2.2 2.9 2.7 2.2 1.8 16.1 37.1 38.5 34.6 35.9 0 1,000 1,200 1,400 1,600 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 0 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 1,371 1,537 1,462 1,405 1,429 218.4 249.6 224.8 211.0 215.9  (10,000 tons of CO2)  (Thousands of kl) 07 06 90 08 09 15 FY Target Target 1.395 (80.0) 0.821 (75.0) 1.095 (100) 1.744 (100) 0.880 (80.4) 1.427 (81.8) 0.965 (88.1) 1.449 (83.1) 1.352 (77.5) 0.879 (80.2) Energy consumption  (thousand kl in terms of crude oil) Unit energy consumption  (thousand kl in terms of crude oil/ton of ethylene) Unit CO2 emissions  (tons of CO2/ton of ethylene) CO2 emissions from fossil fuel for captive  consumption (10,000 tons of CO2) 0.904 (82.6) 1.367 (78.4) unit Sumitomo Chemical has been working actively for the protection of the global environment  and the creation of a recycling-based, low carbon society. Target Improve unit energy consump- tion by 25% relative to fiscal  1990 by fiscal 2015 (Former target: Improve unit  energy consumption by 20%  relative to fiscal 1990 by fiscal  2010) Reduce unit CO2 emissions  from fossil fuel for captive  consumption by 20% relative  to fiscal 1990 by fiscal 2015 (Former target: Reduce unit CO2  emissions from fossil fuel for  captive consumption by 15%  relative to fiscal 1990 by fiscal  2010) Performance in Fiscal 2009 Improved by 17.4% from the  fiscal 1990 level  (6.3% improvement from the  fiscal 2008 level) Improved by 21.6% from the  fiscal 1990 level  (5.7% improvement from the  fiscal 2008 level) Volume of CO2 Emissions Energy Consumption, Unit Energy Consumption,  CO2 Emissions from Fossil Fuel for Captive Consumption, and  Corresponding Unit Emissions  Figures in parentheses are index values ( scal 1990 = 100).  In  scal 2008, both unit energy consumption and unit CO2 emissions increased  due to a decrease in production volumes. In  scal 2009, however, both decreased  following a recovery in production. Reducing Power Consumption by Introducing  Energy-Saving Equipmentment Figures do not include emissions from fuel consumed for electricity or steam sold outside  the Company.  In  scal 2008, total emissions decreased due to a decrease in production vol- umes. In  scal 2009, total emissions increased slightly over levels the previous year  due to production stoppage and adjustment at major plants. Takuya Yamashita No. 1 Manufacturing Department Chiba Works Mr. Yamashita (far left) and his colleagues 
61 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 VOICE Environmental Protection Activities The Osaka Works has been developing its energy conserva- tion activities with the active participation of all employees  since it started its energy conservation promotion system  in 1998. In fiscal 2009, we actively promoted energy con- servation through the effective use of simplified watt-hour  meters. Specifi cally, we attached watt-hour meters (shown in  the photo) to all the electric devices used in our workplaces,  which enables us to identify power consumption, electric- ity charges, and CO2 emissions all at  a single glance. This visualization  of the energy used is making each  employee more energy-conscious  and voluntarily committed to energy  conservation, which is expected to  bring about great results throughout  the Works. At the Oita Works, exhaust gas from one of the main boilers  was sent into the air preheater to recover heat from the gas  through a heat exchange with the combustion air. The equip- ment, however, had become quite old and we replaced it  with a feed-water preheater to achieve more effective heat  recovery. The new equipment allows heat exchange between  boiler exhaust gas and the boiler feed-water, and this has re- duced use of the heavy oil C used  as boiler fuel by approximately 4%  (400 kl) annually. This replacement  has also contributed to a reduction  in atmospheric NOx emissions. The Okayama Plant visualizes the hourly and monthly power  consumption for its major manufacturing equipment and its  office equipment by using power meters equipped with a  communications function. The data transmitted from the me- ters to a PC installed in the meter room are totaled in graphs  (shown below), and the data are sent to the individual depart- ments, which consider how to reduce their power usage (by  making year-on-year comparisons). As a result, lunch- time power con- sumption in the  office and other  facilities has been  reduced by about  half, and we are  now looking into  establishing an online visualization system that allows us to  constantly monitor power usage.  The Okayama Plant uses fuel (heavy oil A) and electrical ener- gy to drive small one-through boilers to generate steam from  water. The plant manufactures a diverse variety of pharma- ceutical intermediates using the batch production method,  and the volume of steam required by the entire plant varies  greatly from day to day. To conserve energy by responding  to changes in the demand for steam, it would be necessary  to ensure operation of the optimal number of boilers and  eliminate any waste. To achieve this, we have adopted a con- trol method that operates the minimum number of boilers  required in order to generate steam more effi  ciently, enabling  us to achieve a reduction of approximately 4% in energy con- sumption per unit of steam production. Improving Equipment to Recover Heat  from Boiler Exhaust Gas Achieving Energy Conservation by Ensuring  Optimal Boiler Operation Teruyuki Akimoto Production Planning Department  Oita Works Takashi Tomita Manufacturing Department  Okayama Plant Visualizing Energy Use (Part 1)  Eff ective Use of Simplifi ed Watt-Hour Meters Visualizing Energy Use (Part 2)  Eff ective Use of Power Meters Equipped  with a Communications Function Keiko Asano Environment & Safety Department  Osaka Works Hideki Kogami Manufacturing Department  Okayama Plan Main boiler with a feed-water preheater (top left) 
Responsible Care Activities 62 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Initiatives to Reduce Overall Environmental Impact Summary of Initiatives     For pollutants released into the environment, such as  exhaust gases, wastewater, and solid waste, we are ac- tively promoting multifaceted measures and strengthening  management by widely adopting the concept of risk man- agement in addition to complying with legal standards and  meeting the criteria agreed on with local governments.      In addition, we are continually deepening communica- tion with people living in the neighborhoods around our  facilities by soliciting their ideas and opinions in order to  make further environmental improvements. PRTR/VOC Targets (top) and major challenge(s) (bottom) Performance in  scal 2009 Waste Reduction Targets (top) and major challenge(s) (bottom) Performance in  scal 2009 PCB Targets (top) and major challenge(s) (bottom) Performance in  scal 2009 Soil and Groundwater Contamination Target Performance in  scal 2009 Speci ed CFCs Target Performance in  scal 2009 Progress on Major Items Targets (top) and major challenge(s) (bottom) -Continue to keep emissions of  SOx, NOx, soot and dust, COD,  nitrogen, and phosphorous at or  below voluntary control stan- dards -Reduce unit water use in fiscal  2010 by 25% relative to fiscal  1990 -Stabilize wastewater treat- ment (including odor elimination  measures) and reduce environ- mental impact Performance in  scal 2009 Prevention of Air and Water Pollution -Emissions were continuously  kept at or below voluntary con- trol standards (See pages 4 and 5  of the DATA BOOK) -Reduced by 27.3% relative  to fiscal 1990 (See page 6 of the  DATA BOOK) -Started full-scale operation of  active sludge treatment facili- ties, strengthened measures to  recover ammonia and control  odors, and reconsidered method  of accepting wastewater (See  TOPIC on page 63 and page 19 of the  DATA BOOK) -Reduce total release of sub- stances subject to the PRTR Act  by 50% relative to fiscal 2002  by fiscal 2010 -Reduce emissions of VOCs by  30% relative to fiscal 2000 by  fiscal 2010 -Implement systematic me- dium- to long-term reduction  project -Assess the risks of substances  newly subject to the PRTR Act -Set medium- to long-term re- duction targets for VOCs -Improve the company-wide  PRTR totaling system -Reduced by 61.6% relative  to fiscal 2002 (See Figure 1 on  page 63) -Reduced by 14.9% relative to  fiscal 2000 (See page 11 of the  DATA BOOK) -Changed to tanks with inner  floats and recovered wastewa- ter -Continued risk assessments  (See page 58) -Studied formulation of new  judgment criteria (See page 58) -Started full reconsideration of  system for additional totaling of  VOC data -Reduce industrial waste land- fill disposal volumes by 90%  relative to fiscal 1990 -Stop sea dumping of red baux- ite by fiscal 2015 -Actively reduce generation of  industrial waste and encourage  waste recycling -Introduce an electronic mani- fest system -Reduced by 83.3% relative to  fiscal 1990 (See Figure 2 on page  63 and page 12 of the DATA BOOK) -Discontinued use of bauxite as  raw material for alumina, re- placed with imported aluminum  hydroxide in May 2010 (Studying  cessation of sea dumping ear- lier than planned) -Reduced generation of indus- trial waste in manufacturing  processes, recycled incineration  ash and waste plastic -Electronic manifests accounted  for 36% of manifests issued by  all plants -Recover and store PCB waste  appropriately, complete treat- ment by March 2014 -Ensure appropriate manage- ment of low-density PCB waste -New plan to treat all PCB waste  at Oita Works and Okayama  Plant (by end of fiscal 2010) (See  page 13 of the DATA BOOK) -Analyzed PCB concentrations  in electrical devices and con- tinued appropriate storage and  control of devices containing  PCBs -Keep hazardous substances  within Company premises -Keep Company premises  under surveillance by conduct- ing related investigations and  remediation and implementing  continuous monitoring -Continued surveys and evalu- ations on soil contamination as  well as remediation work  -Monitoring of groundwater  near boundaries has confirmed  that levels of hazardous materi- als are below those stipulated  by environmental standards -Discontinue use of refrigeration  units that use specified CFCs as  coolants by fiscal 2025 -Continued replacement with  units using alternative coolants  according to plan (No coolant  leakage) (See page 11 of the DATA  BOOK) 
63 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Efforts to Stop the Sea Dumping of Red Bauxite     Red bauxite is the residue of natural bauxite from which  aluminum hydroxide, the raw material for alumina prod- ucts, has been extracted. This substance is composed of  insoluble mineral constituents and saltwater. Sumitomo  Chemical has been safely disposing of red bauxite in the  sea in accordance with the relevant Japanese laws. In ad- dition, the Company formulated a policy to switch to the  use of imported aluminum hydroxide, which generates no  red bauxite, with a view to stopping the dumping of red  bauxite in the sea as early as possible while continuing its  alumina products business. In May 2010, we completed  the shift with the understanding of our major customers.  Since then no red bauxite has been generated from the  manufacture of alumina products, and we are currently  treating the red bauxite that remains at our facilities. We  will complete treatment as early as possible and discon- tinue sea dumpling. Also, as one effective use of the red  bauxite, we used approximately 2,100 tons as material in  cement in cooperation with cement companies in fiscal  2009. VOICE Environmental Protection Activities TOPIC Due to increases in population and  an increasing preference for poultry  around the world, demand for methi- onine* has been expanding. Accord- ingly, our methionine manufacturing  facilities at the Ehime Works continue  to be in full operation. The methi- onine production process generates  wastewater that contains ammonia.  We studied measures to remove and  recover ammonia from wastewater  and installed the necessary equipment  in October 2009, reducing nitrogen in  wastewater by nearly 30% in the Nii- hama area. The Misawa Works classifi es wastewater from  manufacturing processes according to vari- ous treatment methods and treats the stored  wastewater by breaking it down with microor- ganisms (active sludge method) or by directly  incinerating it (when the wastewater is not  suitable for treatment using the active sludge  method). In recent years, the number of diff er- ent types of wastewater has increased but we  were unable to classify these easily because  the number of reception tanks was limited,  which posed challenges such as inability to  dispose of wastewater in a stable manner us- ing the active sludge system and increases in  the amount of wastewater being incinerated.  In 2009, to solve these problems, we divided  one of the reception tanks into fi ve, improving  and strengthening our wastewater manage- ment methods. This has helped to stabilize  active sludge treatment, and by suspending  the incineration of wastewater we were able  to cut fuel consumption by 160 kl in crude oil  equivalent and also reduce CO2 emissions by  approximately 420 tons  annually. Initiatives for Conserving  Biodiversity  As an initiative for conserving bio- diversity, Sumitomo Chemical has  been committed to global environ- mental protection, as stated in the  Sumitomo Chemical Charter for  Business Conduct and in its Eco-First  Commitments to the Japanese Min- ister of the Environment. Specifi cally,  we are developing excellent energy-  and resource-saving technologies  and products, engaging in tree- planting activities using donations  from the Matching Gift program, and  ensuring responsible procurement  by asking our suppliers to implement  environmental protection measures. We conduct experiments in which  we use genetically-modified organ- isms in a safe manner in line with our  own safety control regulations. We  will further strengthen our initiatives  based on the Ministry of the Environ- ments Guidelines for Private Sector  Engagement in Biodiversity and the  Declaration of Biodiversity by Nip- pon Keidanren. 0 500 1,000 1,500 tons 02 06 07 08 09 1,158 10 665 579 1,027 131 631 34 606 552 551 394 158 55 445 411 34 Release volumes Target FY Base FY Air Water 50% reduction by fiscal 2010  relative to fiscal 2002 Figure 1Releases of Substances Subject to the PRTR Act Figure 2Generated Waste and Land ll Disposal Amount 0 100 200 300 400 Thousands of tons 90 07 08 09 06 10 Waste generated 225 44.4 13.6 238 Landfill amount On-site and off-site landfill 4.4 Target FY Base FY Reduce by 90%  relative to  fiscal 1990 9.2 7.7 219 192 154 7.4 Measures to Reduce Nitrogen in  Wastewater Containing Ammonia Stabilizing Wastewater Treatment by  Dividing Reception Tanks  As a result of implementing measures to recover and break down -caprolac- tam, release into water substantially decreased in  scal 2009, while release into the  air increased slightly from an increase in production volumes. Takao Mizuno Niihama Second  Manufacturing  Department Ehime Works * Methionine Methionine is a nutrient and one of the essen- tial amino acids that cannot be synthesized  by animals. It therefore needs to be ingested  with feeds. Methionine is mainly used as a  supplement and is mixed in with chicken feed. Masanori Sato Manufacturing  Department Misawa Works 
Responsible Care Activities 64 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 TOPIC Safety Performances in Fiscal 2009     In  scal 2009, two accidents resulted in lost workdays  (accident frequency rate of lost-workday injuries: 0.16) with  another three such accidents occurring at contractors (ac- cident frequency rate of lost-workday injuries: 0.29).     The annual average for the frequency of lost-work day  injuries during the 10 years from  scal 2000 to 2009 was  2.9. Sumitomo Chemical has been aggressive in pursu- ing occupational safety and health activities to prevent  labor accidents under the fundamental principle of Making  Safety the First Priority. To this end we are repeating the  PDCA cycle to identify all conspicuous and potential risks  and hazards in each workplace and implementing a series  of measures including making improvements based on the  results of risk assessments. As a result of these efforts, all  our sites have already acquired certi cation for their oc- cupational safety and health management systems (OS- HMSs). Unfortunately, however, we have not yet achieved  our target of zero accidents. From this  scal year, we will  continue to promote a culture of safety throughout the  company to ensure that all employees truly understand  and practice our principle of Making Safety the First Pri- ority to foster a corporate culture that will enable us to  achieve and maintain our zero–accident target.     The number of accidents among contractors employ- ees has remained at the same level or has increased  slightly since fiscal 2001. In fiscal 2009, three accidents   resulting in lost workdays occurred. Now we need to re- confirm the fundamental principle of ensuring occupa- tional health and safety through a concerted effort with  contractors to achieve zero accidents. Surveying Buildings Constructed Using  Materials Containing Asbestos     Sumitomo Chemical surveyed all its buildings to deter- mine whether they had been constructed with materials  containing asbestos. Subsequently, asbestos was re- moved, enclosed or surrounded, in accordance with the  Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfares Regu- lations for the Prevention of Asbestos-related Disease. All  such work was completed by December 2005. Safety Initiatives Sumitomo Chemical is building a robust industrial safety and disaster prevention system  making the safety of everyone  rst priority. The RC activity plan for the Ohe Works,  which was established in April 2009, and  Sumika Assembly Techno (SAT) included  the acquisition of JISHA certification for  their occupational safety and health man- agement systems (OSHMSs). In April 2009, the Works and SAT started  jointly to create manuals, provide education, train internal auditors, and  perform internal audits as preparatory work for the inspections that form  part of the certifi cation, and in February 2010, the Japan Industrial Safety  & Health Association (JISHA) conducted onsite inspections and as a result  presented certifi cates to both the Ohe Works and  SAT in March of the same year. However, we have  much more to do to improve our OSHMS and will  implement further measures to establish truly  safe workplaces. For six months starting in October 2009,  the Tsukuba Research Laboratory con- ducted a traffic safety campaign to edu- cate employees on how to avoid causing  traffic accidents while commuting. In this  campaign, named the YYY Campaign, employees (You)  were urged to pay careful attention to driving slowly (Yuk- kuri) and comfortably (Yutori). The campaign achieved its  target successfully through use of a  voice navigation system and activities  in small teams of four to fi ve people. Acquiring OSHMS Certifi cations at the Ohe Works and  Sumika Assembly Techno YYY Traffi  c Safety Campaign - g  is  l (Y ) Distributing campaign  brochures and items  to prevent tra  c accidents 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 75 80 85 90 95 00 05 09 JapanAll industries JapanChemical industry Sumitomo Chemical Members of the Japan Chemical Industry Association Frequency rate of lost workdays FY 1.72* 0.80* 0.16 0.31 Frequency Rate of Lost Workdays Norihiro Miwa General Affairs Department  (Environment & Safety)  Ohe Works Yoshiki Kurotobi Technical Of ce  Tsukuba Research Laboratory Note: Figures shown in the graph are for  scal 2008, as the data for  scal 2009 had not  been published by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare at the time of publication of  this report. 
65 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Safety Initiatives TOPIC Maintaining the Health of Former Employees  of Sumitomo Chemical     If former employees who have handled materials con- taining asbestos while working at Sumitomo Chemical so  request, we will arrange for them to have a physical exam- ination and will discuss their concerns with them, regard- less of the degree to which they handled the materials in  question. So far we have organized physical examinations  for 1,465 persons, 24 of whom have been deemed eligible  for workers compensation insurance benefits under the  Workers Accident Compensation Insurance Act, and 81  persons were issued a Health Check Note. Four persons  have been deemed eligible for special bereaved family  compensation under the Act on Asbestos Health Damage  Relief (as of the end of March 2010).     Information on these physical examinations is also  provided on the Sumitomo Chemical website (in Japa- nese only).  URL  http://www.sumitomo-chem.co.jp/japa- nese/20060112_1.pdf Security and Disaster Prevention Management for  Preventing Accidents at Plants and Assuring Safety     The foremost mission of disaster prevention manage- ment is to prevent unforeseen plant accidents by ensuring  process safety and plant integrity. Plants must also be  protected against natural disasters and terrorist attacks.  Stringent risk assessments are therefore conducted, in  addition to continuous safety improvement and compre- hensive voluntary safety management.      Unfortunately, however, we had two serious accidents in  succession in April and May 2009. Learning lessons from  these accidents, we have created error prevention manu- als and checklists, enhanced our document management  system to make effective use of the documents, clari- fied the judgment criteria for emergency measures and  information communication, and established a fail-safe*  system for the abatement tower equipment. These safety  measures are helping us to promote safety management  throughout the Company aimed at achieving our target of  zero accidents.     We also conduct emergency drills including drills to  provide emergency information to local communities. Look out for one another and predict risks,  I must play a leading role in establishing a  culture of safety This slogan is based on the following idea: workplace safety  cannot be ensured unless employees predict risks to protect  themselves and point out risks that they have identified to  each other to protect their colleagues. All members of the  company, including both top executives and onsite employ- ees must play an active role in creating a culture of safety de- signed to achieve our zero–accident  target by committing themselves to  preventing accidents in their work- place. Fiscal 2010 Slogan for Occupational Safety  and Health Fiscal 2010 Poster for Occupational Safety and Health We designed the poster to show our com- mitment to achieving a sound workplace.  Specifi cally, we will deepen our understand- ing of the fundamental principle of Making  Safety the First Priority and make a concert- ed eff ort to advance our culture of safety as  members of Sumitomo Chemical. The keys  to achieving this target are (1) to look out for  one another; (2) to thank each other; (3) to  greet each other; (4) to inform each other;  and (5) to be considerate of each other. The  poster depicts pigeons, which symbolize  peace, as the symbol for our commitment to  enhancing our culture of safety. Fire at SN Kasei Co., Ltd.   (in the Ohe area at the Ehime Works)     On April 29, 2010, a fi re broke out at SN Kasei, a subsidiary  of Nippon A&L Inc. (a subsidiary of Sumitomo Chemical). Th is  fi re, which occurred in the Ohe area at Sumitomo Chemicals  Ehime Works, inconvenienced and created anxiety for many  people, including local residents, and we apologize sincerely for  the incident.     The fire, which occurred in a resin processing process, did  not cause any damage to persons and had no impact on the  surrounding environment. Nonetheless Sumitomo Chemical  regrets the fi re and is determined to enhance its safety measures,  review its reporting and notifi cation methods, and provide more  emergency education throughout the Sumitomo Chemical  Group to raise safety awareness among all Group employees and  reestablish trust between the company, local residents and all  other stakeholders. * Fail-safe system A fail-safe system employs an apparatus or subsystem that ensures recovery to  a safe state in the event of a system failure. Noboru Inoue Technical Of ce  Tsukuba Research Laboratory Teruhisa Uemura Manufacturing Department  Misawa Works 
Responsible Care Activities 66 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 TOPIC Process Safety Management from Research and  Development to Plant Operation and Dismantling     In an effort to reduce environmental impact and achieve  zero-accident and zero-disaster operations, Sumitomo  Chemical performs safety assessments at each stage  from new chemical process R&D to plant design, con- struction, operation, maintenance and dismantling. Examination of Process Safety     The Process Safety Review Committee convenes at  every step, from R&D through to industrial scale produc- tion processes, to oversee a system in which the safety of  each stage is thoroughly veri ed before moving on to the  next stage. The system is in use at Sumitomo Chemical,  and all Group companies are instructed to adopt it. R&D Safety Con rmation     At the R&D stage, materials safety data and other relat- ed data on the chemicals to be handled are examined and  assessed in detail. These data are then used to select the  safest chemicals and to assess the required amounts in  order to ensure that the R&D will entail only fundamentally  safe chemical processes.     The construction materials for new chemical plants are  also examined and evaluated to select the optimum mate- rials with lower life cycle costs. Plant Safety Con rmation     While plant design and construction are based on legal  technical standards, processes are additionally subjected  to hazard assessments in order to highlight potential dan- gers and incorporate, from the standpoint of self-adminis- tered management, more stringent safety precautions into  the design and construction processes.     In addition, operational manuals are created and train- ing is provided for operators. The Company also conducts  process hazard evaluations regularly after the start of  plant operations and any time there is a change in operat- ing parameters in order to ensure plant safety. Advanced Self-administered Safety Management     Aiming to achieve advanced self-administered manage- ment, Sumitomo Chemicals Process & Production Tech- nology Center works to improve and effectively utilize the  support system and tools obtained from various sources.  Its mission is to support process security and disaster  prevention management, prepare various security and  disaster prevention guidelines, and compile a database of  security information (technical information and accident  information) and risks related to mixing of or contact with  substances.     In  scal 2009, we revised the guidelines on static elec- tricity safety measures and on chemical process safety  in the industrial safety and disaster prevention guidelines  and are now using the revised versions as our guidelines  for 2010. They have also been posted on the Companys  intranet. In November 2009, the Ehime  Works (in Kikumoto) conduct- ed an emergency drill with  the cooperation of the local  Niihama fire department,  inviting the directors of local  resident associations from the  neighborhood. The drill is conducted regularly by the local joint fi re prevention  council comprising Sumitomo Group companies. This time, in  addition to ordinary training to deal with a fire, we also intro- duced a scenario where a fi re had generated poisonous gas and  organized an emergency drill to broad- cast the incident to the local communi- ties surrounding the factory. Conducting a Joint Emergency Drill  in the Presence of Local Residents The Osaka Works has been implement- ing various measures to prevent plant  accidents. In addition we conduct  emergency drills to prepare for such  accidents. In June 2009, we held a com- prehensive emergency drill jointly with  the local fi re department in Konohana, Osaka and with the joint  fi re prevention association in the Osaka Hokuko district. The drill  consisted of initial fi re fi ghting, relief for victims, preventing the  fi re from spreading, and notifying the relevant agencies. We in- vited the directors of neighborhood local resident associations  to the drill as observers. Their response included comments such  as The drill was very disciplined, making  us feel more comfortable to be living near  the factory. We will continue to improve  the quality of our emergency drills.  Holding a Comprehensive Emergency Drill with the  Local Fire Department and Fire Prevention Association Seiji Nakashita Environment & Safety Department  Ehime Works Hirokazu Sawamoto Environment & Safety Department  Osaka Works 
67 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 TOPIC Initiatives for Ensuring Quality, Safety, and Environmental Protection in Logistics Operations The logistics divisions of Sumitomo Chemical uphold a basic policy of ensuring safety and quality, and reducing environmental  impact in all of the Companys logistics operations. The divisions are making a concerted effort with partner logistics companies  to implement this policy. Initiatives for Improving Logistics Safety and Quality (1)  Ensuring logistics safety in cooperation with        logistics companies     Our RC activities are designed to eliminate labor injuries  and quality accidents in our logistics operations in close  cooperation with partner logistics companies. Speci cally,  we conduct cross-organizational activities with the logis- tics companies in order to train one another and improve  voluntary management levels and also find solutions to  various challenges through the Sumitomo Chemical Lo- gistics Partnership Council. We also provide individual  instruction for each of the partner companies through  logistics RC audits. These cross-organizational activities  and RC audits form our two core RC logistics activities.  (2)  Preventing logistics quality-related problems using        IT technologies     We are working to prevent shipping and delivery errors  through the use of barcodes and RFID* tags. The Osaka  Works has developed a system that combines the use of  barcodes to prevent shipping errors and the use of RFID  tags to manage containers, while also using returnable  containers to make our logistics operations more environ- mentally friendly.     Sumika Logistics, a Sumitomo Chemical Group com- pany, has also introduced a system that uses QR codes  for valve operations to prevent shipping errors. Reducing the Environmental Impact of Our Logistics Operations    Sumitomo Chemical has been actively implementing a  modal shift to rail and ship transportation. In our transpor- tation quality improvement project with Japan Freight Rail- way, we formed a local solution team in Chiba and started  joint transportation with companies working in different  industries in 2009. As a result, in  scal 2009 we improved  the unit energy consumption of our logistics operations in  Japan by 0.2% relative to  scal 2008, achieving an aver- age annual reduction rate of 2.7% since fiscal 2006. We  also reduced CO2 emissions by 5.5% from the  scal 2008  level (by 17.8% from  scal 2006). As part of the company-wide efforts to encourage the shift  to railway transportation and to upsize containers, the Chiba  Works formed a solutions team to improve the quality of  railway transportation jointly with JR Freight Railway and Kei- yorinkai focusing on the bulk transportation of resin products.  In December 2009, the Works started joint transportation  with Toyobo Co, Ltd., the company to which it delivers its resin  products. Products from the Chiba Works are transported in  ISO containers by rail from Keiyo Kubota Station to Tsurugako  Station, and then from this station fi lm products from Toyobo  are transported to the Kanto region (to Kumagaya Kamotsu  Terminal Station). As a result of this roundtrip transportation  method, CO2 emissions  can be reduced by a total  of 1,060 tons annually.  The Works is also ex- panding this modal shift  for shipments to Nagoya,  Niihama and Mizushima. Activities of the Local Solutions Team in Chiba In filling tanks with a variety of products that flow through  numerous valves, the risk of errors in the mixing process is  high. To solve this problem, in November 2009, Sumika Logis- tics began assigning  each valve its own QR  code, which is then  read to prevent mix- ing errors during the  fi lling process. System for Preventing Shipping Errors Using  QR Codes for Valve Operations Safety Initiatives / Initiatives for Ensuring Quality, Safety, and Environmental Protection in Logistics Operations Performance in Fiscal 2009 * RFID Radio frequency identi cation (RFID) tags: Generic term for technologies used  to identify individual items using radio waves. Recently, however, identi cation  through the combined use of non-contact communication using radio waves  and IC chips is becoming a mainstream RFID technology, and so RFID is now of- ten used to mean a non-contact identi cation technology using IC chips. RFID  tags are therefore also called  IC tags. Energy consumption Unit energy consumption CO2 emissions 32,800 kl in crude oil equivalent 0.0105 kl/ton 86,700 tons Ceremony held by JR Freight Railway to  celebrate the start of the joint transporta- tion project 
Responsible Care Activities 68 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 TOPIC Chemical Safety Management throughout the Life Cycle of Chemical Products Increasing Global Requirements for Chemical Risk Reduction     In August 2002, the World Summit on Sustainable De- velopment (WSSD) was held in Johannesburg, the Repub- lic of South Africa. The Summit proposed targets for 2020,  aiming to ensure that chemicals are used and produced  in ways that lead to the minimization of signi cant adverse  effects on human health and the environment. This led to  the adoption in February 2006 of the Strategic Approach  to International Chemicals Management (SAICM), admin- istered and inspected by the UN Environment Programme  (UNEP), in the International Conference on Chemicals  Management (ICCM). This has accelerated global initia- tives toward reducing risk throughout the life cycle of  chemical substances.     As a member of the chemical industry, Sumitomo  Chemical is advancing initiatives for both regulatory com- pliance and voluntary measures to strengthen risk-based  chemical management in our commitment to contribute to  the implementation of SAICM. Environmental Health Science Laboratory Playing a  Central Role in Safety Research     At Sumitomo Chemical, the Environmental Health Sci- ence Laboratory plays a central role in a diverse variety of  safety assessments for various products developed by the  Sumitomo Chemical Group.     The Laboratory conducts sophisticated research in di- verse fields ranging from genetics to environmental and  ecological science on a global scale, making use of the lat- est scienti c knowledge and advanced technologies as well  as the Companys abundant expertise in chemical safety  assessment developed over many years. In addition, as  the core laboratory supporting the technological aspects  of RC activities for chemical safety at Sumitomo Chemical,  the Laboratory provides the entire Company with safety  information and the results of risk assessments in order to  ensure safety and protect the environment throughout the  lifecycles of chemical products and is also implementing  measures to improve its risk assessment level. Building a New System in Line with Global Trends     With an increase in international awareness of the need  for appropriate management of chemicals, it is becoming  extremely important for chemical companies to collect  and manage chemical safety information in order to be  able to properly respond to chemical regulations that are  becoming stricter every year and ensure chemical safety  based on risk assessments.      In a proactive response to these trends, Sumitomo  Chemical launched a program for compiling existing  nd- ings and information on the safety management of chemi- cal products in fiscal 2005. In order to properly manage  all safety information, including that collected through  this program, and utilize it effectively, Sumitomo Chemi- cal has been building a new generation database system,  the Sumitomo Chemical Comprehensive Environmental,  Health & Safety Management System (SuCCESS).      SuCCESS is a system that enables us to review informa- tion on safety, applicable laws, composition, and MSDS for  In risk assessment, the assessment of hazards is indispens- able, and therefore, in fiscal 2005, we started a program to  gather existing fi ndings and evaluate information on hazards.  We have continued this program while assessing the toxicity  and properties of chemicals by proactively using a category  approach, prediction models and databases, and encourag- ing the development and introduction of the cutting edge  evaluation technologies such as alternative testing methods  and omics analysis. To assess exposure, another essential element of risk assess- ment, we have consolidated exposure scenarios for the life- cycles of our products while verifying and introducing a vari- ety of exposure simulation models. Furthermore, we are ac- tively introducing and developing refi ned models for specifi c  exposure situations to ensure legal regulatory compliance  and encourage the voluntary management of our products. By assessing the risks of chemicals promptly and precisely us- ing various advanced technologies, we will further increase  the eff ectiveness of our risk management and risk communi- cation. Risk-based Chemical Management  Risk Management throughout the Lifecycles of Chemical Substances Manufacturing Products Environment Foodstuffs 
69 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 TOPIC Elucidating Toxicity Mechanisms and Predicting Toxicity through Metabonomic Analysis In recent years, metabonomic analysis has been attracting   attention as a method to quantify a variety of internal me- tabolites such as amino acids, sugars, and fatty acids present  in animals and plants. Concentrations of internal metabolites  are maintained within a certain range in the body, but if given  an external stimulus such as exposure to chemical substances,  the information is communicated from genes to metabolic  substances, and can cause changes in the concentrations of  some internal metabolites. Sumitomo Chemical is monitoring the new metabonomic  analysis technologies using gas chromatography and mass  spectrometry and is endeavoring to establish a method for as- sessing the toxicity of chemicals by identifying changes in the  concentrations of internal metabolites brought about through  exposure to chemicals. For example, we conducted metabo- nomic analysis of the blood and urine of rats to which we had  administered hepatotoxic substances, and identifi ed changes  in the concentrations of specifi c internal metabolites to eluci- date the mechanism of toxicity. (We reported the results at the  34th Annual Meeting of the Japanese Society for Biomedical  Mass Spectrometry in 2009.) In addition, this research is ex- pected to lead to the discovery of new toxicity biomarkers. Sumitomo Chemical is focusing its efforts on assessing the  safety of various chemicals and agricultural pesticides and be- lieves that metabonomic analysis will help us elucidate toxicity  mechanisms and predict chemical toxicity more precisely. Chemical Safety Management throughout the Life Cycle of Chemical Products all chemicals handled by Sumitomo Chemical and use this  information for risk management, while also making better  use of the data accumulated by the Company over many  years. The system came into full operation in 2009, and now  all employees can access the system through the Company  intranet.     Using cutting-edge technologies, Sumitomo Chemical is  proactively assessing and managing chemical risk at each  stage of the lifecycle, including development, manufacture,  sale, use, and disposal. As part of these efforts, we have  considered how best to respond to the start of full registra- tion in 2010 under the EUs REACH legislation. We are as- suming a variety of applications for our chemical products  along the supply chain and verifying these by communi- cating with downstream customers and incorporating the  information thus obtained into the risk assessments for our  products. Active Participation in Voluntary Initiatives in Japan  and Overseas     Sumitomo Chemical plays a leading role in compiling  reports on some of the target chemicals in the voluntary  safety assessment program for high production volume  (HPV) chemicals conducted by the ICCA. As a member of  the chemical industry, the Company also provides data  on other chemicals that it handles. Furthermore, we are  actively involved with the Japan Challenge Program, a  Japanese version of the HPV program by, for example,  participating in data entry trials to create templates for or- ganizing the collected data.     Sumitomo Chemical is also an active participant in and  is providing continuous support for the Long-Range Re- search Initiatives (LRI) for research on the impact of chem- icals on human health and the environment, which, like the  HPV program, was initiated by the ICCA. This initiative is  being implemented by chemical industry associations in  Japan, the United States, and Europe. Animal Welfare     In the process of developing useful chemical substanc- es, a variety of safety assessments are required. Some  of these assessments, however, cannot be completed  without conducting experiments using laboratory animals.  Sumitomo Chemical advocates humane treatment of  laboratory animals and applies the 3Rs of animal use and  animal welfare: replacement, reduction, and refinement.  Beyond the standards speci ed by current laws and regu- lations on animal care and use issued by the Japanese  Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Education,  Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, the Ministry of  Health, Labour and Welfare, and the Ministry of Agricul- ture, Forestry and Fisheries, we also have internal rules for  conducting animal experiments and have established the  Animal Welfare Committee to verify compliance with these  rules and to ensure that animal experiments are conduct- ed properly and appropriately with due consideration for  animal welfare.     We regularly monitor the care and use of animals as  speci ed in the law as well as our internal regulations and  ask external experts such as university professors spe- cializing in the ethics of animal experiments to evaluate  our animal experiments for further improvement.     We have also been actively improving our system for  educating those engaged in animal experiments and de- veloping alternatives to animal experiments. External stimulus (by chemicals, etc.) Phenotypic pattern (toxic symptom) Genes mRNA Proteins Metabolic        substances Communication of  an External Stimulus 
Responsible Care Activities 70 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Responsible Care (RC) Audits Responsible Care Auditing Framework and Overview     Sumitomo Chemical conducts RC audits to objectively  evaluate whether RC activities are being conducted ap- propriately and whether the PDCA cycle is being execut- ed properly.     Sumitomo Chemicals Works and Research Laborato- ries are subject to the following two types of RC audits: (1)  Specialized audits, in which specialists conduct audits   on RC systems and their operation; and (2)  Management audits involving Responsible Care Com- mittee members led by the executive vice president in  charge of Responsible Care.     Specialized audits are also conducted for each of  Sumitomo Chemicals business sectors as well as Group  companies in Japan and overseas. Medium-term RC Audit Plan (Fiscal 2010 to 2012)     We plan to promote RC activities throughout the Sumi- tomo Chemical Group for three years starting in fiscal  2010 and to conduct RC audits on Group companies that  are directly relevant to their management in order to help  them improve their RC activities. Specific details are as  follows. -RC audits of global standards     RC audits based on the entire Groups RC activity stan- dards -Enhanced support for RC activities     Establishing a support system to promote and improve  RC activities throughout the Group -Development of human resources to support RC activities     Support for the training of RC staff throughout the Group RC audits help enhance corporate value by contributing to in- creasing the eff ectiveness of RC activities through verifi cation  of a wide range of activity items. In fi scal 2009, we thoroughly  revised the checklist used in auditing Group companies for  the fi rst time since the list was created in fi scal 2001, thereby  substantially raising the level of our RC activities. That year we  were thus able to take the  fi rst steps toward achiev- ing higher targets.   Looking Back on RC Audits Performed in Fiscal 2009 VOICE Responsible Care Auditing Framework Responsible Care Auditing Flow (Overview) Delegation RC Committee RC management audits, audit team Composition of specialized RC audit team Specialized audits RC  RC specialized auditors RC auditors RC  RC  RC  Committee members  specializing in process safety Works and Research  Laboratories Business sectors (Planning & Coordination  Office, Divisions) Group companies  (Japan and overseas) Specialized audits Specialized auditing of RC systems and their operation Sumitomo Chemicals Works  and Research Laboratories Sumitomo Chemicals Business  Sectors and Group companies Overseas Group  companies Environmental audit Health & safety audit Product quality& PL audit Category Description Scope Management audit Auditing from a managerial perspective by  Sumitomo Chemicals  executive officers Description Continuous improvement activities incorporating corrective actions  and preventive measures Fiscal 2009 Responsible Care Audit Results     Responsible Care specialized audits and management  audits were conducted at the Ehime, Chiba, Osaka, Oita,  Misawa, and Ohe Works and at the Tsukuba Research  Laboratory. In addition, a total of 43 audits were conduct- ed on our business sectors and domestic and overseas  Group companies. The results turned up no major issues  of noncompliance with laws and regulations. RC Audit Team (From the left on the front row)  Toshiyuki Kokubo, Manager  Masakazu Sagara;  (from the left on the back row)  Naoyuki Sasaki and Jun Sato We verify a wide range of items to make our Responsible Care activities more effective. 
71 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Quality Assurance Initiatives Group-Wide Initiatives     Sumitomo Chemical has been promoting quality assur- ance activities throughout the Group. In  scal 2009, a total  of 47 Group companies acquired ISO 9001*1 and other  certifications in Japan and overseas, while a number of  companies have been carrying out GMP*2 quality assur- ance activities.     In fiscal 2009, Sumitomo Chemical again held meet- ings for information exchange with domestic and overseas  Group companies to promote quality assurance activities  throughout the Group. At the meetings, the Company ex- plained the Group policies on quality assurance, details of  the global standards for quality assurance operations and  product safety operations to be applied to Group compa- nies, and GHS*3-related trends in the EU. Pervio-Related Activities    Sumitomo Chemical markets Pervio*4, a separator for  lithium ion secondary batteries. The lithium ion secondary  battery separator is positioned between the anode and  cathode and functions to prevent short circuits. It thus  plays an essential role in ensuring battery safety and must  therefore be of the highest quality. We have obtained ISO  9001 certi cation both at Sumitomo Chemical and some  Group companies for the development, manufacture, and  sale of Pervio, and we are committed to assuring the  highest product quality. In  scal 2009, we received praise  from customers, who appreciate our contributions to the  commercialization and stable production of their batteries. VOICE In order to provide high-quality, competitive products, Sumika  Electronic Materials (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. strives to assure the quali- ty of its products comprehensively, and all its employees work  with a strong sense of commitment to social responsibility. In  the Quality Assurance Department, we are also endeavoring  to improve quality to maintain the trust of our customers and  increase customer satisfaction. In terms of product quality, we obtained ISO 9001 certifi cation  for our quality control system in June 2006 and at the same  time installed processing equipment as well as inspection,  measurement, and analysis equipment, all of which are at the  most advanced levels in the industry. We provide employees  with education and training on quality control and give them  opportunities to practice what they have learned in order to  continually raise their awareness of quality in our efforts to  encourage all employees to participate in improving total  quality. In terms of quality assurance as well, we have created  a system that allows us to respond to customers concerns  within 24 hours to resolve quality-related issues promptly. We  also continue to improve our level of quality control and pro- ductivity while reducing production  costs. Constantly Committed to Improving Our Quality  Assurance System Initiatives at Sumitomo Chemical     At Sumitomo Chemical, our Business Sectors, Works,  and Research Laboratories formulate and implement their  own annual quality assurance plans based on the Com- panys annual quality assurance policies that have been  discussed and approved by the Responsible Care Com- mittee. In fiscal 2009, we experienced no major quality- related problems. We achieved results by enhancing our  product safety activities, continuing to raise all employees  awareness of quality, and strengthening our upstream  management. Responsible Care (RC) Audits/Quality Assurance Initiatives Sumitomo Chemical works to supply high-quality products and services that satisfy customers needs  and ensure safety in their use. *1    ISO 9001 International standards on quality management systems set fourth by the In- ternational Organization for Standardization *2   GMP  Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP): Standards for the manufacturing man- agement and quality control of pharmaceuticals, etc. *3   GHS Globally Harmonized System of Classi cation and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS): A  set of globally harmonized rules that establish a method for classifying and label- ing chemicals by type and degree of hazard  *4   Pervio Highly heat-resistant separator developed by Sumitomo Chemical using its pro- prietary technologies Wensong Zhao Quality Assurance Department Sumika Electronic Materials  (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. 
Responsible Care Activities 72 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 VOICE Strengthening Product Safety Activities     One of the essential CSR activities for any company is  to ensure the safety of the products it delivers to its cus- tomers. To meet this requirement, we conduct a variety of  activities, including identifying product risks, implement- ing measures to ensure higher levels of safety, educat- ing employees and others who handle our products, and  formulating company rules to ensure that such measures  are implemented successfully. We must also implement  measures based on the identi cation of product risks. For  example, in developing new products, we repeat the risk  identi cation and response measures from the R&D stage  through to the study of mass production and actual deliv- ery to customers according to company rules.     Sumitomo Chemical has been conducting these prod- uct safety activities since before the Japanese Product  Liability Act* came into effect, and reviews its activities  periodically to ensure even higher levels of safety. In  scal  2009, we reviewed procedures to identify product risks  and the implementation of measures, and established a  new risk assessment method that takes into account the  worlds latest trends. The new method allows us to assess  product risks more precisely, including both risks to cus- tomers and the impact on the environment. We are also  planning to apply the new method to products that have  already been risk assessed to provide our customers with  even safer products. Enhancing Upstream Management     Quality engineering, also known as the Taguchi method,  is one of the technology development tools that allow us  to indentify the optimal conditions for manufacturing high- performance products of stable quality in the product  design and development stages. Use of this methodology  has not yet been widely adopted in the chemical  eld, but  Sumitomo Chemical is disseminating its use throughout  the company to provide customers with products with  The fi rst internal presentation meeting on the results of ap- plying quality engineering was held in May 2009 at the Petro- chemicals Research Laboratory. A total of about 60 employees  attended the meeting from each of the Works, and the pre- sentation of seven case studies of application was followed by  a lively exchange of opinions. The meeting represented the  culmination of eff orts made by our employees over a period  of roughly two years. Quality engineering is used in the product design stage to  ensure stable high product quality. Initially, I found it diffi  cult  to understand the innovative concept of the Taguchi method,  but after listening to advice from a consultant, I was finally  able to achieve results by applying the concept to an ongoing  development project.    In the past, the Works and Research Laboratories were using  their own individual Taguchi method systems in their activi- ties, but after the meetings started, a joint system to utilize  the concept was established, and since then we have been  encouraging its use laterally throughout the organization. We  are planning to expand our application  of the concept by applying the Taguchi  method to new projects. Attending the Presentation Meeting on the Results of Applying Quality Engineering even higher performance and stable quality.     In fiscal 2009, we held our first internal presentation  meetings on the results of applying quality engineering  in Chiba and Ehime, and participants actively exchanged  opinions in the discussion and Q&A sessions. The meet- ings were a great success. R&D stage Feasibility study  for mass production Meeting to discuss initial research Experiments Meeting to discuss research results Meeting to discuss mass production Market launch Meeting to discuss the results of mass production Identifying  risks Implementing  measures *   Product Liability (PL) Act  This law, which came into force in 1995, imposes liabilities on manufacturers in  the event that users of their products are harmed by a defective product.  Presentation meeting at the Ohe Works on the results of  applying quality engineering Takeshi Kaiba Functional Polymer Group  Petrochemicals Research Laboratory Identifying Product Risks and Implementing Measures 
73 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Cross-industry Initiatives     In addition to undertaking initiatives throughout the  Sumitomo Chemical Group, Sumitomo Chemical has also  been actively promoting joint activities with other com- panies, not only in the chemical industry but also in other  industries as well. Japanese Industrial Standards*1     In response to the recommendations made by the  United Nations on a Globally Harmonized System of Clas- si cation and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS), countries are  establishing their own national laws and standards, and  Japan has become the first country to make implemen- tation of the GHS a legal requirement. Specific items to  be implemented under the GHS are now included in the  Japanese Industrial Standards, and are categorized into  a classi cation method, MSDS*2 description details, and  labeling details. Sumitomo Chemical was one of the mem- bers responsible for creating the draft of the Japanese  Industrial Standards corresponding to GHS.     Following the revision of the UN recommendations on  the GHS, the corresponding Japanese Industrial stan- dards were also revised in  scal 2009. Sumitomo Chemi- cal participated in the revision work and helped write the  draft based on its  knowledge of GHS- related worldwide  trends and the ac- tual use of MSDS. Product Information Communication System     Companies need to obtain information about concentra- tions of some chemical substances used in home electri- cal appliances and automobiles in order to comply with  REACH*3 in the EU and other similar regulations. To this  end, manufacturers of chemical substances (upstream  companies), companies that mix and combine chemical  substances and manufacture parts using those substances  (midstream companies), and companies that assemble the  parts into final products (downstream companies) must  share relevant information throughout the supply chain.     The chemical industry has been providing information  on chemicals to customers via MSDS, but to comply with  the REACH regulation, the industry requires more detailed  information. However, individual companies in the industry  trying to communicate this information in their own sepa- rate ways will be inef cient and could result in a failure to  communicate the required information clearly. To avoid  this, upstream, midstream, and downstream companies  must communicate information with each other using a  standardized form. Sumitomo Chemical and other compa- nies established JAMP*4 with a view to creating and revis- ing standardized forms (MSDSplus*5 and AIS*6).      In  scal 2009, Sumitomo Chemical supported the es- tablishment of an IT infrastructure called JAMP-GP*7 to  disseminate the use of MSDSplus and AIS forms through- out the supply chain. Quality Assurance Initiatives Examples of MSDS JAMP-GP (serves as a channel and forum for information exchange) AS AS AS Upstream  company Midstream  company Downstream  company MSDSplus MSDSplus AIS AIS Database Illustration of JAMP-GP *1   Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) Industrial standards formulated on the basis of the Japanese Industrial Stan- dardization Act, and one of Japans national standards *2   MSDS Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS): Sheet that describes information neces- sary for the safe handling of chemical products (their properties, handling  methods, safety measures, etc.) *3   REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH):  Regulation on chemicals in force in the EU *4   JAMP Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium (JAMP): Established by com- panies as a rational information communication system for regulated substances  contained in products For details, visit the JAMP website: http://www.jamp-info.com/english *5   MSDSplus Information communication form developed by JAMP for regulated substances  contained in chemical products *6   AIS Article Information Sheet (AIS): Information communication form developed by  JAMP for regulated substances contained in chemical products *7   JAMP-GP JAMP-Global Portal (GP): IT infrastructure to communicate information through- out the supply chain *8   AS Application Service (AS): Service that connects users to JAMP-GP and provides  screen functions for direct operation by users as well as MSDSplus and AIS stor- age functions *8 
Economic Activities 74 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Sumitomo Chemical will provide society with new value through chemical innovation.      Since its foundation in 1913, Sumitomo Chemical has  been contributing to the sustainable development of soci- ety through a variety of business operations, based on a  philosophy of providing bene ts widely throughout society  instead of merely pursuing pro t. At present, the company  is conducting business globally with more than 100 Group  companies in six  elds: basic chemicals, petrochemicals  & plastics, fine chemicals, IT-related chemicals, agricul- tural chemicals, and pharmaceuticals.      To continue to receive the approval of its wide range of  stakeholders, Sumitomo Chemical will use its advanced  technologies to create new value that reflects changing  times, contribute to bettering peoples lives, and help the  international community solve global problems involving  resources, energy, food, and the environment. Basic Chemicals Sector Functional materials, additives, dyes, pharma- ceutical chemicals, etc. Petrochemical products, synthetic resins,  synthetic rubber, synthetic resin processed  products, etc. Resorcinol, the raw material for adhesives for tires  and  ame retardants Sumilizer GP, a polymer additive used to impart ad- ditional functions to synthetic resins and rubber Products made using alumina powder and alumina Caprolactam used as a material for synthetic  bers,  and nylon-based products Containers and wrapping  lms made from polyethyl- ene Instrument panel made using polypropylene, a poly- mer used mainly for automobile parts and household  goods  Business Sectors Inorganic chemicals, raw materials for syn- thetic  bers, organic chemicals, methyl meth- acrylate (MMA), alumina products, aluminum,  etc. Petrochemicals & Plastics Sector Fine Chemicals Sector Economic Activities Tokyo Head O  ce 
75 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Business Sectors Optical products, color filters, semiconductor  processing materials, electronic materials,  compound semiconductor materials, battery  materials, etc. Polarizing  lm indispensable for LCD TVs  Photoresists used during the production of semi- conductors Agricultural chemicals, fertilizers, agricultural  materials, household insecticides, insecticides  for epidemic prevention, materials for the pre- vention of tropical infections, feed additives,  etc. Ethical pharmaceuticals, diagnostic radiophar- maceuticals, etc. Feed additives DL-methionine and methionine  hydroxy analog Agricultural pesticides for various crops Example of use of PET diagnostic agent, e ective in  the early diagnosis of malignant tumors Pharmaceuticals manufactured by Dainippon Sumi- tomo Pharma Co., Ltd. Company Pro le Name : Head office  : Founding : Start of business  operations : Incorporation : Capital : Consolidated net sales : Number of consolidated  subsidiaries : Number of employees : Sumitomo Chemical Co., Ltd. (Tokyo) Tokyo Sumitomo Twin Building (East) 27-1, Shinkawa 2-chome Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104- 8260, Japan (Osaka) Sumitomo Building  5-33, Kitahama 4-chome,  Chuo-ku, Osaka 541-8550, Japan September 22, 1913 October 4, 1915 June 1, 1925 89,699 million yen 1620.9 billion yen 180 27,828                                     (As of March 31, 2010) IT-related Chemicals Sector Agricultural Chemicals Sector Pharmaceuticals Sector Basic Chemicals Sector 12.5% Petrochemicals &  Plastics Sector 29.7% Fine Chemicals Sector 4.2% Others 7.7% Pharmaceuticals Sector 16.5% Agricultural Chemicals  Sector 13% IT-related Chemicals Sector 16.4% Fiscal 2009 Breakdown of  consolidated  sales Sales by Sector 
Economic Activities 76 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Business Locations  Sumitomo Chemical aims to achieve further growth through the global expansion of its business. Osaka Kobe Wellington Sydney Pretoria Arusha Barcelona Lyon London Brussels Cambridge Hampshire Milan  Torun  Rabigh Trunava Tarapur Mumbai Dalian Seoul Pyeongtaek Iksan Kaohsiung Taipei Bangkok Singapore Kuala Lumpur Zhuhai Wuxi Shanghai Walnut Creek Phoenix Guadalajara  Libertyville New York Edison Wilmington Grif n Sao Paulo Misawa Works Tsukuba Research Laboratory IT-related Chemicals Research  Laboratory (Tsukuba) Head Of ce (Tokyo) Chiba Works Petrochemicals Research Laboratory Plastics Technical Center Process & Production Technology  Center (Chiba) Ehime Works Ohe Works Process & Production Technology  Center (Ehime) Basic Chemicals Research Laboratory IT-related Chemicals Research Laboratory (Ehime) Oita Works Osaka Works Process & Production Technology Center (Osaka) Organic Synthesis Research Laboratory Environmental Health Science  Laboratory Fine Chemicals Research Laboratory IT-related Chemicals Research  Laboratory Branch Of ce (Fukuoka) Okayama Plant Head Of ce (Osaka) Utajima Pilot  Production Dept. Agricultural Chemicals  Research Laboratory  Domestic Facilities  Overseas Facilities Tainan Beijing Hefei Marlborough Fort Lee Gifu Plant Branch Of ce (Nagoya) 
77 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Overview of Consolidated Business Results      In  scal 2009, although demand for our products in the  automotive, electrical, and other related industries showed  some signs of recovery in the latter half of the year, the  business climate surrounding the Sumitomo Chemical  Group was generally quite challenging.       In order to improve business performance under these  conditions, the Sumitomo Chemical Group made a con- certed effort to reduce costs through thorough rational- ization while revising the sales prices of its products and  increasing sales volumes. As a result, net sales totaled  1620.9 billion yen in  scal 2009, a 167.3 billion yen decline  from the previous  scal year. Operating income was 51.5  billion yen, ordinary income was 35.0 billion yen, and net  income was 14.7 billion yen.      In  scal 2009, due to further globalization of its busi- ness, the Sumitomo Chemical Groups overseas sales ra- tio reached a record high level of 45%. Business Locations / Business Performance in Fiscal 2009 Business Performance in Fiscal 2009  0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000  (100million yen) 05 06 07 08 09  (FY) 0 300 600 900 1,200 1,500 (100 million yen) 05 06 07 08 09 (FY) -500 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 (100 million yen) 05 06 07 08 09 (FY) -800 -600 -400 -200 0 200 400 600 800 1,000  (100million yen) 05 06 07 08 09  (FY) 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 30,000 (Persons) 05 06 07 08 09 (FY) 20 30 40 50  01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 (FY) Net Sales Operating Income Ordinary Income Net Income Number of Employees Overseas Sales Ratios 15,566 17,900 18,965 17,882 16,209 1,208 1,396 1,024 21 515 1,411 1,580 928 326 350  907 939 631 592 147  24,160 24,691 25,588 26,902 27,828 28.2 29.5 31.4 37.5 39.2 41.8 41.6 41.9 45.0 
Economic Activities 78 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Results of the Three-Year Corporate Business Plan  for Fiscal 2007 to 2009      Sumitomo Chemical implemented a variety of measures  under its the Three-Year Corporate Business Plan for  scal  2007 to 2009. In particular, we were able to start operation  of facilities as planned for the Rabigh Project, our top prior- ity under the plan. We also acquired Sepracor Inc., a US  pharmaceutical company, and actively invested in R&D for  polymer organic LEDs (PLEDs) and energy-related technol- ogies. We missed no opportunities to make steady invest- ments for our future growth, and were thus able to continue  with the globalization of our business.      However, we were unable to achieve our initial business  performance targets for the  scal year because of the rapid  decrease in demand caused by the world economic down- turn. Due to this and the aforementioned investments, our  interest-bearing liabilities increased substantially.  Corporate Business Plan for Fiscal 2010 to 2012      Sumitomo Chemical is now implementing its Corporate  Business Plan for fiscal 2010 to 2012. In formulating this  new Corporate Business Plan, the Company  rst conceived  its Corporate Vision based on the results of analysis of fu- ture trends in the world economy and business environment  from a long-term perspective and the Companys business  portfolio. We regard this new Corporate Business Plan as  the  rst step toward achieving our Corporate Vision and are  now implementing a variety of measures under the plan. Corporate Vision      The Companys Corporate Vision comprises the following.      In I, we will accelerate the global expansion of our  business and meet continually changing market needs by  making use of our advanced technologies. In II, we will  make full use of our chemical technologies to meet global  challenges, including improvements to peoples living  standards and health, solutions to issues related to energy  and food, and the creation of a low carbon society. In III,  we will continue to enhance and increase our pro tability  to meet the expectations of our shareholders. Three Strategies To Achieve Our Corporate Vision      In order to achieve our Corporate Vision, the Com- pany will actively pursue its Technology Strategy, Climate  Change Strategy, and Business Portfolio Strategy. Corporate Business Plan (Fiscal 2010 to 2012) -Focus R&D resources on the three high-growth areas of  Environment and Energy, Life Sciences, and Information &  Communication Technology (ICT).   -Practice Creative Hybrid Chemistry, combining key tech- nologies in different areas to create new value by continu- ally developing new technologies and products. -Pursue Green Sustainable Chemistry to develop competi- tive products and technologies that contribute to meeting  global challenges. -Achieve the worlds highest level of energy ef ciency. -Develop products and technologies that will contribute to  CO2 emission reductions. Environment  and Energy Life  Sciences ICT (Information  & Communication  Technology) Corporate Vision Achieve sustainable strong growth as a stronger,  more innovative global company. Help meet pressing global challenges and contribute  to sustainable development of the global community. Continuously enhance the value of the company. Technology Strategy Climate Change Strategy Business Areas with High-Growth Potential <Basic Policy> Help solve pressing global issues of resources, en- ergy and the environment <Priority Climate Change Initiatives> -Achieve the worlds highest level of energy effi- ciency -Develop products and technologies that will con- tribute to CO2 emissions reduction <CO2 Emissions Reduction Measures> Enhance carbon management and implement  proactive, effective and coordinated measures  throughout the Sumitomo Chemical Group Climate Change Strategy    
79 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Basic Initiatives      Under the Corporate Business Plan, we have determined  the following as the seven basic initiatives, including quickly  maximizing pro ts and cash  ows from major investments  and enhancing  nancial strength.  Business Indicators 2009 Target for 2020 Petro &  Basic (Bulk) Petro 31% ICT, Battery Materials  & Fine Pharma & Agro  (Life Sciences) Basic 12% Others 7% Pharma 16% Agro 13% IT 16% Fine 5% Refinery &  Others 30% 30% 30% 10% 43% 50% 7% Corporate Business Plan (Fiscal 2010 to 2012) 1. Quickly maximize profits and cash flows from major  investments    Maximize as soon as possible the profits and cash flows  from the Rabigh Project and other major investments. 2. Enhance financial strength    Enhance cash flow management to strengthen the  Companys financial underpinnings. Shift the composi- tion of the business so as to strengthen resilience against  exchange rate fluctuations in view of the Companys ever- increasing ratio of overseas sales. 3. Strengthen cost competitiveness of core and com- modity businesses    Establish optimal global production and sales opera- tions as soon as possible. Strengthen cost competitive- ness through thorough rationalization to build a greater  presence in emerging markets, where competition is in- tensifying. 4. Accelerate business growth    Develop new businesses in the three high-growth areas  of Environment and Energy, Life Sciences, and ICT. Pro- mote even greater cross-sectoral business exploration  and development, while applying Creative Hybrid Chem- istry more broadly and effectively. 5. Implement Climate Change Satrategy 6. Strengthen global management system 7. Ensure full and strict compliance; maintain safe and  stable operations  Seven Basic Initiatives Assumptions: Exchange rate: 90 yen/US$ Naphtha: 50,000 yen/kl Crude oil: US$85/bbl Fiscal 2012 Performance Targets (Consolidated) Net Sales Operating income Ordinary income   (Including equity in earnings of affiliates Net income 2.4 trillion yen 190 billion yen 220 billion yen 140 billion yen 40 billion yen) -Achieve balance among the three areas of Bulk Chemicals  (Basic Chemicals and Petrochemicals & Plastics); Life Sci- ences (Agricultural Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals); and  ICT, Battery Materials and Fine Chemicals so that each ac- count for 30% of sales by 2020. 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 (100 million yen) (FY) 2009 2012 (Target) 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 (100 million yen) (FY) 2009 2012 (Target) 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 (100 million yen) (FY) 2009 2012 (Target) 0 300 600 900 1,200 1,500 (100 million yen) (FY) 2009 2012 (Target) Business Portfolio Strategy Business Targets under the Corporate Business Plan 16,209 515 350 147 24,000 1,900 2,200 1,400 Net Sales Operating Income Net Income Ordinary Income 
80 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 The Japan Petroleum Institute Award for Fiscal 2008 Sumitomo Chemical received the Japan Petroleum Insti- tute Award for Fiscal 2008 at the ordinary general meeting  of the Japan Petroleum Institute held on May 19, 2009 in  recognition of its propylene oxide-only process (see page  18). This award is granted to those who have achieved  remarkable industrial results by making comprehensive  technological developments for machinery and equipment  in the  elds of oil, natural gas, and petrochemicals. Technology Award for Fiscal 2009 from the Catalysis Society of Japan In recognition of efforts made to develop a ruthenium- based hydrogen chloride oxidation catalyst and put it into  practical use, five employees of Sumitomo Chemical re- ceived the technology award for  scal 2009 from the Catal- ysis Society of Japan at an award ceremony held on March  24, 2010. The society praised the development of the worlds first  ruthenium-based catalyst, which exhibits much higher per- formance than conventional catalysts, and the practical re- alization of catalysis process technology using a  xed bed  reactor. The process is effective in conserving resources  and energy and prevent- ing global warming, and  Sumitomo Chemical has  licensed the technology  to several chemical man- ufacturers both in Japan  and overseas. Third-Party Evaluation and Commendation, and Marks  that have been Approved for Use      Commendation    Japan Petroleum Institute Award for Fiscal 2008 Third Annual Responsible Care Award Prize of excellence from the head of the Ibaraki Labour Bureau (for fiscal 2009) Technology award from the Catalysis Society of Japan (for fiscal 2009) Major External Commendations (Fiscal 2009) Marks that have been Approved for Use Kurumin Mark Eco Rail Mark PRTR Awards Eco-First Mark Major SRI* Indices in which Sumitomo Chemical is Included *SRI Socially Responsible Investment (SRI):  Investment based on evaluati on criteria  that include items on CSR measures  implemented by companies     Japan Petroleum Institute Japan Responsible Care Council (JRCC) Ibaraki Labour Bureau Catalysis Society of Japan These commendati ons include those given to an organizati on within the Company and individual employees of the Company. 
81 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 VOICE Sumitomo Chemical included the GRI Content Index in the CSR report. The GRI Guidelines represent the sus- tainability reporting framework that is used most widely in the world, and the inclusion of the table demon- strates the Companys commitment to ensuring comparability for its global stakeholders. Now I would like to  propose that the Company consider whether to make a self-declaration on the GRI application level. As regards the contents of the CSR Report, it was pointed out in our previous review that there was room for  improvement regarding the disclosure of information on the Companys social performance, because not all  of the related data were aggregated and reported on a consolidated basis. In response, the Company has en- hanced its global aggregation system and begun aggregating consolidated data for some indicators. The con- solidated data, however, are not included in the CSR Report because the Companys disclosure policy has not  yet been determined. I hope that the Company will continue its eff orts to aggregate and report consolidated  data to expand the reporting boundary. With regard to the environmental and safety performance indicators included in the CSR Report, as a result of  a visit to the Companys factory, it was found that, although the factory had calculated the emissions according  to the rules initially set by the Head Offi  ce, the factory had calculated VOC emissions to be reported to the Head  Offi  ce without examining the eff ects of the emission reduction measures implemented at the factory. The fac- tory needs to refer to the review in examining the eff ects of the measures to reduce their environmental impact  and regularly review the established rules so that the Sumitomo Chemical Group can de- scribe its current situation more precisely in the CSR Report. Independent Assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Assuring the Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 October 12, 2010 Yoshitaka Ohno Manager KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. 
82 Sumitomo Chemical CSR Report 2010 Description Statement from the most senior decision maker in the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Description Name of the organization Primary brands, products, and/or services Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures Location of organizations headquarters The number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifi cally relevant to the sustainability issues  covered in the report Nature of ownership and legal form Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/benefi ciaries) Scale of the reporting organization, including: -Number of employees; -Net sales or net revenues; -Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity; and -Quantity of products or services provided Signifi cant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: -The location of, or change in operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; and -Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations Awards received in the reporting period Description Report Profi le Reporting period (e.g., fi scal/calendar year) for information provided Date of most recent previous report (if any) Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Report Scope and Boundary Process for defi ning report content, including: -Determining materiality; -Prioritizing topics within the report; and -Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) State any specifi c limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can signifi cantly aff ect comparability from period to  period and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators  and other information in the report Explanation of the eff ect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of  base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) Signifi cant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report GRI Content Index Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report Assurance  Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, ex- plain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s) Description Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specifi c tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive offi  cer (and if so, their function within the organizations management and the reasons for this arrangement) For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure confl icts of interest are avoided Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of  their implementation Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organizations identifi cation and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, in- cluding relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles Commitments to External Initiatives  Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: -Has positions in governance bodies; -Participates in projects or committees; -Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or -Views membership as strategic Number 1. 1 1. 2 Number 2. 1 2. 2 2. 3 2. 4 2. 5 2. 6 2. 7 2. 8 2. 9 2. 10 Number 3. 1 3. 2 3. 3 3. 4 3. 5 3. 6 3. 7 3. 8 3. 9 3. 10 3. 11 3. 12 3. 13 Number 4. 1 4. 2 4. 3 4. 4 4. 6 4. 8 4. 9 4. 11 4. 12 4. 13 Report Page p.2-3 p.2-3, 78-79 Report Page p.74-75 p.74-75 p.74-75 p.74-75 p.74-76 p.74-76 p.74-77 p.74-77 p.26 p.80 Report Page Inside front cover Inside front cover Inside front cover Back cover Inside front cover Inside front cover NA p.41,43,54- 60,63-64,67 p.59 Inside front cover p.1, p82-83 Inside front cover,  p.81 Report Page p.28 p.28 p.28 p.28, 44 p.28 p.12-13, 18, 48 p.28, 31 p.28-30, 38-39, 42, 44, 46, 60-70 p.5, 31 p.25 GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Reference Table 1.  Strategy and Analysis 2.  Organizational Profi le 3.  Report Parameters 4.  Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Inside front cover,  p.54-60 