 2 Table of Contents  PART A STRATEGIES AND GENERAL INFORMATION.....................................................................3  PART I  STATEMENT OF THE PRESIDENT AND STRATEGIES ..........................................................................3  PART II GENERAL INFORMATION OF COSCO.............................................................................................13  PART III BASIC PROFILE OF COMPANIES IMPLEMENTING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT  SYSTEM......................................................................................................................................................15  PART IV AWARDS .......................................................................................................................................26  PART V GENERAL INFORMATION OF THE REPORT.......................................................................................29  PART B MANAGEMENT AND PARTICIPATION OF STAKEHOLDERS........................................39  PART I CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE.........................................................................................39  PART II MAJOR POLICIES AND , ANAGEMENT SYSTEMS ..............................................................................46  PART III GLOBAL COMPACT, OVERALL RISK MANAGEMENT AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT..............54  PART IV. PARTICIPATION OF STAKEHOLDERS............................................................................................70  PART C MANAGEMENT APPROACHES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS..........................79  PART I ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATOR AND KEY REPORT................................................................80  I. Management approaches ...................................................................................................................80  II. Performance indicators ....................................................................................................................82  PARTII  ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATOR AND KET REPORT ................................................101  I. Management measures.....................................................................................................................102  II. Performance indicators ..................................................................................................................104  PART III PRODUCT LIABILITY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR AND KEY REPORT ............................................ 116  I. Management approaches ................................................................................................................. 117  II. Performance indicators .................................................................................................................. 119  PART IV LABOR RELATION PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND THEME REPORT..........................................126  I. Management approaches .................................................................................................................127  II. Performance Indicators..................................................................................................................130  PART V HUMAN RIGHTS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND THEME REPORT ..............................................149  1. Management approaches.................................................................................................................150  II. Performance indicators ..................................................................................................................152  PART VI SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND THEME REPORT..........................................................161  1. Management approaches.................................................................................................................162  II. Performance indicators ..................................................................................................................164  Assurance Statements   G3 Content index   
 3 Part A Strategies and General Information  Part I Statement of the President and Strategies  I. Statement of the President   In 2008, global economic situation has changed abruptly. In this year,  the influences of global financial crisis on economic entity became  obvious, growth rate of international trade slowed down, and shipping  market faced great fluctuation. In the face of severe situation, COSCO  Group has implemented and carried out the scientific development  outlook in an in-depth manner to cope with the crisis. It has grasped the  market opportunities, deepened the internal reform, enhanced the  management and made new achievements in reform and development. It  continued to outperform other enterprises in terms of production ability.  Its operational benefits maintained stable and its income and profits took  a lead among global shipping enterprises. In 2008, COSCO Group  ranked the 327th in Fortune 500 List, an elevation of 78 places from the  405th in 2007, fulfilling three leap-forward developments in three years  and further elevating its position and image.   Seeking for sustainable development in financial crisis is an important content for COSCO Groups efforts  to implement and act in the scientific outlook of development. In face of possible risks brought by market  changes, COSCO Group has attached great importance to market researches, improved its market  prediction level, changed operational ideas, changed the operation methods in market growth to operation  method to cope with economic slowdown rapidly, and tried to adapt to market recession in terms of  operational ideas and marketing methods. With an aim to cope with the impacts of financial crisis  effectively, COSCO Group has taken many preventative measures timely. It has taken the strategy of  giving top priority to cash, controlled the investment scope, paid attention to risk control of investment  and made investment decisions cautiously. It has adjusted the growth structure of carrying capacity of fleet,  further reduced the investment scale of main businesses, avoided investing into non-main business and  strictly controlled administrative expenditure. Large-sized conferences were held in form of video  conference to save business trip expenditure greatly. Besides, it has promoted economic shipping speed of  vessels to save energies and reduce emissions. It has negotiated with ports on articles of cooperation  agreement to reduce port expenditure, and carried out vessel rent re-negotiation with foreign ship-owners  actively to reduce costs of chartered-in ships. It has implemented safety production responsibility system to  further enhance the safety supervision, eliminate potential safety risks and ensure safe navigation of ships  and safety production in lands.   As a leading enterprise in Global Compact initiative, COSCO Group has actively supported and taken part  in activities relating to Global Compact. It is the first Chinese enterprise who signed the Statement of  Caring for Climate Changes and the Declaration on World Human Rights. It has insisted on performing its  social responsibilities with world thinking and global perspective, showed its charms as a leading  comprehensive shipping company in the world and shouldered the globalization social responsibilities of a  world-class transnational company.   COSCO Group actively implemented the Guiding Opinions for Central Enterprises to Perform Social  Responsibilities issued by SASAC under the State Council, the Notice of Shanghai Stock Exchange on  Promoting Listed Companies to Shoulder Social Responsibilities and the Release of Shanghai Stock  Exchanges Guidelines on Disclosure of Environmental Information of Listed Companies (No. 1277  Document of Shangzheng Shanghan [2008]), the Notice on Doing a Better Job in Disclosure of Report on  Performance of Social Responsibilities of Listed Companies in 2008 and Internal Control Self-evaluation  Report as well as other requirements of related parties. Development of COSCO Group has followed the  scientific outlook of development advocated by the Chinese Government. It has insisted on reviewing the  development of enterprises, leading management innovation, establishing resource-saving and harmonious  enterprises and fulfilling sustainable development of the enterprise under the guidance of four major  contents namely human-orientation, comprehensive, coordinative and sustainable development.   In 2008, COSCO Group actively performed the Global Compact and social responsibilities, and its key  
 4 social responsibilities include:  1. Actively responded to the recall of Central Committee of the CPC and the State Council, carefully  attended and deployed the activities to fight against rain, snow, ice and frozen disasters, relieved earthquake  disaster, ensured safe and smooth holding of the Beijing Olympics as well as aided people in poverty or in  Tibet, so as to ensure the transportation of electricity, coal and disaster-relief materials. Besides, it also  transported a large batch of materials to earthquake disaster-stricken areas according to the requirements  and tried to be a leader in performing corporate social responsibilities with practical behaviors.   2. COSCO Charity Foundation donated 141.25 million yuan in the whole year.  3. Successfully held the 5th World Shipping (China) Summit and built up its image of a responsible  enterprise.  4. COSCO Group actively promoted the direct shipping across the strait of Taiwan. As a first shipping  enterprise, it opened Xingang-Kaohsiung, Yangshan-Kaohsiung shipping lines, making positive  contribution to cross-strait peace and co-existence.  COSCO Group determined the risk levels based on sustainable development of various business units, and  made overall planning and three-year implementation plans for comprehensive performance of Global  Compact, performance of social responsibilities and fulfillment of sustainable development. From 2005 to  2007, it has completed the upgrade and expansion from the pilot company of COSCON to COSCO bulk,  logistics and terminal companies. COSCO Groups first sustainable development report released in 2006  was appraised as notable COP of United Nations Global Compact, making COSCO Group the first  enterprise that wins this honoral in China and the first shipping enterprise in the world listed in notable  COPs. Since then, COSCO Groups sustainable development report had been appraised as notable COP of  United Nations Global Compact for three years in succession, making COSCO the only enterprise in Asia  that wins such honorable titles for three years in succession. The COSCO Group Sustainable Development  Report 2007 received A+ rating in review of COSCO GRI Sustainable Development Guidelines. COSCO  Group has started the implementation of its second three-year implementation plan since 2008, and has  completed the strategic improvement of sustainable development in three years.   COSCO Group has established sustainable development management system and business process  restructuring in 7 years, making the system an important cornerstone for its growth. Under the sustainable  development management system of COSCO Group, the sustainable development management and  organization system, the sustainable development culture system, the management, measurement and  supervision system as well as the information management platform had supported with each other, making  the sustainable development strategy a part of the companys value concept.   In the future, COSCO Group will continue to perform the Global Compact, actively participate and support  the important activities of Global Compacts network in China and try to be a leader in corporate social  responsibility sector of the industry with practical behaviors.                       June 25,2009                    
 5 II. Strategy   COSCO Group has established long- and medium-term sustainable  development strategy. The COSCO Group Sustainable Development  Report 2008 uses the analytical method of six-sigma strategic  mapping to analyze and demonstrate the development strategy of  COSCO Group.  Sustainable development strategy of COSCO Group  Mission statement  Gradually develop to become a world leader in international shipping, logistics services, and  ship-building and ship-repairing by maintaining trustworthy relationships with our customers,  employees and partners, yielding best returns for shareholders, society and environment.    Value concept: Harmonious development, welfare of mankind    Development strategies  Perform the duties as a corporate citizen by taking technology as a tool and benefits as the core while  adhering to the human-oriented and market-oriented principles; stick to the two-pronged drivers of  production operation and capital operation; make international shipping business stronger, expand  logistics business and terminal operation, develop the ship-building and ship-repairing businesses; With  shipping business as the basis, propel COSCO Group's transformation from a global shipping carrier to  a global logistics operator and international shipping logistics system integrator from a cross-border  business player to a transnational company and global conglomerate; build COSCO a harmonious and  everlasting group and fulfill its healthy, fast and sustainable development.    Development strategies of four transformations  The transformation  from periodical  development to  sustainable  development  The transformation  from combination of  software and hardware  with hardware as the  emphasis to the  combination of  software and hardware  with software as the  emphasis  The transformation  from possessing and  controlling the  resources to allocating  social resources.  The  transformation from  obtaining benefits mainly  from production business  to obtaining benefits from  both production business  and capital operation    Development objectives   Generating 10 billion yuan of revenue and building up century-old COSCO (double-hundred strategy)   Development thoughts and objectives during the 11th Five-Year Plan period  As a leading enterprise in Chinas shipping industry, COSCO Group has insisted on scientific  development outlook, attached great importance to the harmony of corporate development and the  environment and society, been dedicated to key issues highly concerned by international community  such as climate and human right, and promoted the coordinated and sustainable development of the  industry and the society. According to the general requirements on central enterprises implementation  of stock system and entry into capital market of the SASAC under the State Council, COSCO Group  has deepened the system reform and established the three-layered modern enterprise system with clear  management and governance structure in a comprehensive manner.  
 6 Make overall planning,  implement related  strategies in steps and  accelerate the entry of  major businesses into  the capital market with  China COSCO as the  flagship for building  up of capital-based  COSCO and fulfill the  capital structure of  "5:4:1"; raise capitals  through the capital  market, propel the  mechanism reform and  system establishment,  regulate the operation  and management  procedures and  constantly enhance the  enterprise's sustainable  development ability;  promote industry  optimization and  restructuring  depending on the core  businesses, improve  overseas operation and  management  mechanisms, and  expand overseas  business presence;  Stably expand the  scale of vessel fleet  owned and controlled  by the group,  scientifically adjust the  fleet structure, make  great efforts to  develop the container  vessel fleet, oil tanker  fleet and costal bulk  carrier fleet, speed up  the development of  specialized vessel  fleet, systematically  control the scale of  bulk cargo vessel fleet,  establish new bulk  cargo ship operation  system and mechanism  through reconstruction  and integration,  improve the  continuous  profitability of  shipping companies;  Develop logistics,  cargo transport and  ship agency businesses  with COSCO Logistics  as the platform for  development of  modern logistics  business, expand  overseas logistics  business based on  domestic market and  form COSCO Group's  competitive advantages  in global logistics  industry as soon as  possible; fulfill the  transformation form a  strategic investor to an  operator and manager,  from container  terminal operator to  diversified terminal  operator with container  terminal as the major  business, and from  regional investment to  global development  based in China, form a  unified industry  management system  with COSCO Pacific  as the pillar, and build  up COSCO Group's  terminal brand;      Grasp the opportunity to  sensibly expand the scale  of ship-building and  ship-repairing business,  and constantly improve  the competitiveness and  profitability of the  company; optimally  develop the financial and  IT industries, making  them important pillars for  development of main  businesses;  Boost construction of corporate cultures and employee teams, protect the fundamental and long-term  rights and interests of employees, improve the harmonious mechanism for mutual development of both  enterprises and employees, and build up a harmonious enterprise based on development, reform,  stability, innovation, justice and culture;  Keep the vessel fleet scale in a leading position in the world, the internationalized operation indicator at  United Nation's indicators for Top Global 100 Companies, and the sales income at Fortune Global 500;  primarily realize the transformation from a global shipping carrier to a global logistics operator and an  international shipping logistics system integrator depending on shipping businesses, from a  multinational business operator to a multinational and global company, and lay solid foundations for  building of harmonious and long-lived COSCO Group.  Fully recognize the important meaning for performance of Global Compact, cultivate and deepen social  responsibility sense, release sustainable development report to the international community on an  annual basis, voluntarily accept supervision of the society and be a responsible corporate citizen.   Make coordinated planning and carefully implement and comprehensively perform the responsibilities  of Global Compact. All units shall integrate the implementation of commitments as specified in the  Global Compact, in particular various principles with respect to environmental protection, labor, human  rights and anti-corruption, with various work of the unit, segment them into feasible and detailed  measures, and change them into voluntary actions of each employee. The annual sustainable  development report within planning period of COSCO Group shall be compiled to submit an  internationally advanced report to the United Nations. Works for release and promotion of the report  
 7 should be done well to further improve the image of COSCO Group. With an aim to ensure that the  sustainable development work of COSCO Group can be carried out in a continuously and orderly  manner, the Sustainable Development Committee of COSCO Group shall be established, under which,  committees of various companies shall be set up. Stable teams of promoting personnel, indicator  information collectors, internal auditors and report compiling personnel shall be established. According  to the commitment of COSCO Group in the Sustainable Development Report 2006, companies in the  group shall be organized to implement Global Compact and social responsibilities as well as sustainable  development management system. According to the requirements of the SASAC, the annual sustainable  development reports released by central enterprises will become a regular work. Related companies  shall establish and improve the COSCO Group sustainable development management system according  to the requirements and realize process-based, systematic and standardized management.    Policies  Management policies  Environmental  protection policies  Safety policies  Quality policies  Through correct  decisions, scientific  management and  high-quality services,  establish harmonious  enterprise, implement  comprehensive risk  management and  Global Compact, and  realize the coordinative  and sustainable  development of  corporate value, human  environment and  natural resources.  COSCO Groups  environmental  protection criteria  include comprehensive  management, resources  cherishing and  environmental  protection. In the  production and  operation process,  COSCO Group has  been dedicated to  environmental  protection and has  cherished resources of  the earth. It has  supported and attended  the ecological  protection activities as  a social responsibility  undertaker and  voluntarily improved  ecological environment  of the enterprises.  Insist on the concept of  human-orientation,  safety development and  construction of  harmonious COSCO  and reduce dangerous  influences with  prevention as the main  measure.  Safe, convenient and  high-quality products  and services.    Management methods  Apply modernized management tools to build up digitalized COSCO    Balance score card for sustainable development work  Economic performance Product  performance/environme ntal performance/social  performance  Company governance  Labor performance and  human rights  performance  Financial performance Stakeholders  Internal control  procedures  Study and growth  Direct economic value  Consumer health and  Decision-making  Staff employment  
 8 created  safety  mechanism  Financial inputs for  climate changes  Product and service  logo  Communication  mechanism  Relations between  labors and management  team  Retirement plan  coverage rate  Customer satisfaction  Supervision mechanism Occupational health &  safety  Key financial supports  provided by the  government  Marketing and  publicizing  Evaluation mechanism Training and education Minimum salary and  comparison with the  standards  Consumer privacy  Internal control and risk  management  mechanism  Diversifications  Procurement and  suppliers  Law compliance  Improvement  mechanism  Investment and  procurement behaviors Proportion of local  senior executives  employed in important  operational places  Raw materials    Non-discrimination  Infrastructure  investment and services  for public welfares by  providing materials or  free professional  services through  commercial activities  and the influences  Energy    Freedom of association  and collective  bargaining  Indirect economic  influences  Water resources    Child labor    Bio-diversity    Enforced and  compelled labors    Exhaust gas, sewage  and waste    Safety and security  work    Products and services    Rights of indigenous  people    Regulations        Traffic transportation        Community        Anti-corruption        Public policies        Anti-competitive  practices        Anti-trust and  monopoly        Conformity with laws  and regulations      So far, the description of sustainable development strategy blueprint has been completed, and in the next  step, the division and operation of three-layered indicators of balance scoring card will be completed.         
 9 III. Analysis on primary influences, risks, opportunities and countermeasures of  sustainable development  COSCO Group has formulated the COSCO Group Development Planning in 11th Five-year Period  according to the planning of 11th Five-year Period of the State. It has insisted on using the scientific  development outlook in all kinds of work, systematically analyzed the primary influences, risks,  opportunities and countermeasures of sustainable development of COSCO Group with SWOT analytical  method of lean six-sigma, correctly identified advantages, disadvantages, opportunities and threats, and  made countermeasures corresponding based on possible combination of these advantages, disadvantages,  opportunities and threats, thus making correct decisions and planning for sustainable development of  COSCO Group.                   
 10 Analysis on primary influences of sustainable development  Influences on  the company  Influences on  the industry  Influences on  the brand  Influences on  the business  Influences on  investment  Influences on  the employees  Influences on  the society  Development  of COSCO  Group greatly  promotes the  development  of China's  national  economy and  foreign trade,  provides  guarantees for  transport of  important  materials such  as energies  and resources,  and ensures  the national  economic  safety.  COSCO  Group greatly  improves  China's ability  and position in  participating  international  maritime  affairs. China  has been rated  the A-category  member of  United  Nations'  International  Maritime  Organization  for 9 times in a  row,  participating  in the  formulation of  the world's  maritime rules  and the  decisions of  the  international  maritime  affairs.  Ships and  containers  with COSCO  log shuttle  between over  1,500 ports in  more than 160  countries and  regions,  bringing active  influences in  promoting  prosperity of  global trade  and economy. COSCO  Group is  focusing on  sharpening the  comprehensive  competitivenes s of several  vessel fleets  including  container  ships, dry bulk  carriers, oil  tankers and  specialized  cargo carriers  in a horizontal  perspective,  while  improving the  competitivenes s of the supply  chain from  shipping to  door-to-door  logistics,  terminals and  ship-building/s hip-repairing  sectors.  COSCO  Group's  development  has important  impacts on  promoting the  stable  development  of the global  logistics  supply chain  and industry  chain.  By constantly  improving the  competitivenes s of its  shipping  business,  COSCO  expands its  business  presence in  modern  logistics  industry, build  up the core  capability to  surpass its  competitors  and pursue the  goals of three  maximizations , namely the  maximization  of enterprise's  benefits, value  and return to  shareholders. COSCO has  committed  itself to  creating a  platform for  operators and  employees to  show off their  talents and  realize their  dreams, while  giving all  employees the  returns  matching their  contributions  to the  company.  As an  international  shipping  company,  COSCO  Group features  high safety  and  environmental  protection  risks as well as  heavy social  responsibilities . As a result,  COSCO  Group is  speeding up to  build a  resource-savin g and  environment-fr iendly  enterprise.  As a spearhead of China's shipping industry and a global shipping group, whether COSCO Group can achieve the  sustainable development is of great significance and has important impacts on the domestic and international economy and  trade development, its shareholders, employees, customers and partners, the industry, the society, the environment, etc.                              
 11 Analysis on primary risks and opportunities of sustainable development  External  perspective  In-depth  downturn  of  international  shipping market since second half of  2008; drastic fluctuation of global and  domestic capital and financial markets as  well as energy prices, in particular oils;  increased security and environmental  protection costs.  Challenges  Internal perspective  Establishment of a stable and sustainable  operation mode that will not substantially  fluctuate with the drastic fluctuation of the  market. COSCO Group should focus its  efforts to build such an operation mode,  with which, it can make higher profits  than its rivals under favorable market  situation, and can reduce the losses  compared with its rivals or be free from  the losses under unfavorable market  situation. When the market fluctuates  greatly, COSCO Group can maintain its  operation more efficient and make its  returns more stable.  COSCO Group should establish a stable and sustainable  operation mode, carry out the scientific development  outlook and fulfill the comprehensive, harmonious and  sustainable development of the enterprise. It has been  proved by the experience of the international shipping  development that it is hard to fulfill such a development  status under a market downturn. The unstable and  fluctuating development status or development pattern may  be transformed into a stable and coordinated development  pattern only by grasping the development opportunities and  carrying out comprehensive reform and adjustments.  Accelerate the establishment of strategic partnerships with  VIP customers to lay a solid foundation of cargo sources  for successful establishment of a stable and sustainable  operation model.  Speed up the paces to enter the international and domestic  capital markets to provide constant funds for the  enterprise's development and propel the enterprise's  "system transformation and establishment".  In recent few years  COSCO Group successfully grasps the  important opportunities of speeding up the  development  and  transforming  development or operation models.  Accelerate the adjustment and the optimization in such  aspects as industry structure, asset structure, fleet structure  and staff structure.  The world's economy and trade is expected to maintain  stable and continuous growth at least in the foreseeable  early 21st century, namely in the first 30 years. This will  provide stable and continuously growing market spaces for  the global shipping, logistics and related industries.  The objectives of building a well-off society in an all-round  way by 2020 decide the growth speed and size of China's  shipping, logistics and related businesses and will provide  the driving forces for continuous development of Chinas  shipping and logistics enterprises including COSCO Group  for a long period of time in the future.  Opportunities  In longer period of time  The approach of the corporate citizen era  will lay a long-term and solid foundation  on market and environment for COSCO  Group's successful establishment of a  stable and sustainable operation pattern,  and to fulfill the sustainable development.   The sustainability concept is being deepened. The  corporate social responsibility campaign is in the  ascendancy. Establish and implement the scientific  development outlook, establish a harmonious socialist  society and construct a harmonious enterprise.  Market risks. For a certain period of time at present and in  the future, supplies and demands of international shipping  market will change reversely. The situation that supply falls  short of demand will change into the situation that the  supply exceeds demands. The market entered into  low-valley and adjustment period rapidly from peak period. Operation risks. Based on operational situation of fleets of  COSCO Group, the operation risks mainly include  ship-leasing risk, FFA risk, ethnic risk, benefit risk, etc.  Management risks. Under the circumstance that the market  is in downturn and economic benefits decrease, risks on  security and stability will be exaggerated due to various  factors such as tight capital and unstable hearts.  Risks  Since the second half of 2008, the global financial  and economic crisis caused by sub-prime mortgage  crisis had resulted in downturn of international  shipping market, bringing impacts to operation of  shipping enterprises including COSCO Group.  Profitability of enterprises was reduced and risks  were increased.  Countermeasure risks. Under current market situation,  countermeasure risks of two extremities may appear. One  
 12 is lucky and blindly optimistic attitudes. The changes of  basic situation of supplies and demands of the market in  short and medium-term are not seen clearly. It is imagined  that the market is in recession temporarily and will reach  the peak season soon. Even more, it is taken as a good  opportunity to buy-in at the low season. Another is lack  of confident, panic-stricken with nothing attempted or  accomplished.  Financial risks. If key mistakes made due to inability to  cope with market risks, operation risks and management  risks, the financial risks may appear. Besides, fluctuation of  international financial market, adjustment of exchange rate,  interest rate, stock price and oil price may increase financial  risks.    Analysis on primary countermeasures for sustainable development  Currently, the biggest challenge for COSCO Group is the sharp down of market and operation  situation of dry and bulk fleet, which is major profit-making business, and container fleet, the  focus of assets of COSCO Group. Therefore, COSCO Group puts forward ten opinions for  risk control and profit-making of dry and bulk cargo vessel fleet and container fleet  respectively, namely the double-ten opinions.  Comprehensive inspection shall be conducted on vessel leasing and FFA agreements to reduce  the law-breaching and operational risks to the minimum extents. For vessel chartering  agreements signed, inspection shall be conducted again to see are there any incompliance  behaviors and preventive measures shall be taken ahead of time. For the vessel renting  agreement signed, rates shall be adjusted at appropriate time according to the traditions of  shipping market, so as to share risks with ship-owners and try to reduce losses. For FFA  agreements which may bring losses, hedging and other measures shall be taken.  Investment and operation strategies shall be adjusted to increase operational benefits to the  maximum extents. Evaluation and implementation of strategic partnership agreements signed  in the primary stage should be accelerated to bring into full play the supporting functions of  strategic partners in difficult time. Responses shall be made to appeals of SASAC under the  State Council, cooperation between central enterprises in difficult time shall be enhanced, and  try to cope with the difficulties together. Efforts shall be made to stabilize the customer  sources and use joint forces of the entire fleet in negotiation of new agreements.  Under the circumstance that the income may drop sharply, it is the urgent task to enhance the  management, reduce expenditures and strictly control costs.  From short-term prospective COSCO Group  has taken  effective  measures to cope  with the  difficulties and  risks caused by  low valley of  international  shipping market,  and tried to  fulfill the targets  of seeking for  development,  controlling risks,  grasping the  opportunities and  competing for  benefits  Great attentions shall be paid to safety and stabilization work in difficult time. When the  market was in downturn and the operation meets difficulties, the difficulties of safety and  stabilization work will be increased. In this period, special attentions shall be paid to do a  better job in production safety and team stabilization.  The transformation from periodical development to sustainable development.  The transformation from combination of software and hardware with hardware as the  emphasis to the combination of software and hardware with software as the emphasis.  The transformation from possessing and controlling the resources to allocating social  resources.  From long-term prospective  COSCO Group  continues to  promote  following four  transformations.  The transformation from obtaining benefits mainly from production business to obtaining  benefits from both production business and capital operation.  
 13 Part II General Information of COSCO  Name: China Ocean Shipping (Group) Company (COSCO Group)  Established on: April 27, 1961  Legal representative: Capt. Wei Jiafu  Main businesses: international passenger and cargo transport,  cabin booking, voyage charter and time charter,  ship-building/repairing/buying/selling, component  manufacturing, storage, inter-modal transport and door-to-door  transport, as well as approved overseas futures business.   Industrial rankings: Chinas No.1 and worlds No.2 ocean  shipping company   Headquarters: Ocean Plaza, 158 Fuxingmennei Street, Xicheng District, Beijing, China   Zip code: 100031           Telephone: 86-10-66493388    Fax: 86-10-66492288          Website: www.cosco.com   Telephone for supervision and complaint: 86-10-66492565  China Ocean Shipping (Group) Company (known as COSCO Group) is a large global enterprise group  focusing on international shipping, logistics & ports, and ship-building and ship-repairing businesses. It is  also a Fortune 500 enterprise. After half of century of development, COSCO Group has grown from none  to existing size, from a small one to a large one, from a weak one to a strong one, with its fleet size ranks  the 2nd in the world, its modern logistics business develops from No.1 to internationally renowned  enterprise, and its ship-building and ship-repairing business from Chinas leading position to internationally  advanced one. Since 21st century, COSCO Group has sped up its globalization process, with operation  service, capital operation, cultural management, cooperation & competition, social responsibility and  globalization of foreign diplomatic resources have become important features.   COSCO owns and controls over 800 modern merchant vessels with a  total tonnage of 51 million DWTs and, by the end of 2008, an annual  carrying capacity of 400 million tons. COSCO Groups shipping lines  cover over 1,500 ports in more than 160 countries and regions  worldwide, and its fleet size ranks the first in China and the second in  the world. COSCO Group is positioned first in China and sixth in the  world by container fleet size, and is also the first in the world by dry  bulk fleet. COSCO Group owns worlds most advanced container ships  with tonnage of more than 10000TEU, Asias No.1 semi-submersible  ships, heavy lift ships for loading of super large and heavy cargos,  300,000-ton VLCC, and professional automobile ships.   COSCO Group owns rich logistics facilities and resources. It operates  more than 4,000 logistics vehicles, including large cargo transport  vehicle with 289 axes and the largest carrying capacity of 8,000 tons,  2.49 million square meters of storage ground and 2.97 million square  meters of warehouse. Besides, it also enjoys advantages in terms of  talents, technologies and global service network. COSCO Group tries to  promote  business  model  optimization  and  improves  business  profitability focusing on three core businesses, namely modern logistics,  ship agents and cargo agents. It provides high value-added services for  customers in household, chemical, power and financing sectors. Besides,  it also provides logistics services for many key projects home and  abroad, such as Qinghai-Tibet Railway, Tianjin Airbus and Indian power  station, setting many world records.     
 14 COSCO Group has many ship-building and ship-repairing bases in Dalian,  Zhoushan, Nantong, Guangdong, Shanghai and Lianyungang. These bases  own a total of 16 docks including 300,000-ton-class dock and  500,000-ton-class dock, with businesses include large-sized ship and ocean  engineering construction, refitting and reparation. These bases boast leading  production equipment assembling ability and production management level,  and takes a lead in the world in terms of indicators such as technical ability,  production efficiency and production costs. These bases annual repair and  refit over 500 large-sized vessels and build up 2.4 million tons of ships,  generating over 20 billion yuan of operating revenue in 2008.   COSCO Group has formed a global structure with Beijing as the center, 9  regional companies in Hong Kong, America, Europe, Singapore, Japan,  Australia, Korea, West Asia and Africa as the radiation points. It owns more  than 1,000 companies and branches in over 50 countries and regions. It hires  400 personnel long-term stationed overseas and over 4,000 foreign  employees. The overseas assets and income of COSCO Group have  exceeded more than half of the total. Currently, a complete global business  chain including shipping, logistics, terminal, and ship-building and  ship-repairing businesses is forming. COSCO Group invests into and  operates 32 terminals, with a total of 159 berths. According to data released  by Drewry in September 2008, the port throughput of COSCO Group ranked  the fifth in the world in 2007.   With the progress of the overall planning of holistic listing and step-by-step implementation, and the  development of capital COSCO to certain scale with China COSCO as the flagship platform, listing of  China COSCO at Hong Kong Stock Exchange becomes the ever-largest public offering in global shipping  industry. In 2008, China COSCO ranked the 242th in Financial Times Global 500. COSCO Group was one  of the earliest Chinese enterprises that enter international capital market. Early in 1993, COSCO  Investment was listed in Singapore in form of back-door listing. Currently, it holds controlling shares or  shares of 8 listed companies including China COSCO, COSCO Pacific, COSCO International, COSCO  Corporation (Singapore), COSCO Shipping, CIMC, China Merchants Bank and Sino-Ocean Land.    Over  the  years,  COSCO  Group  has  been  dedicated  to  informationization construction. It has invested billions of yuan to  introduce, digest and absorb latest achievements of modern  information sector and tries to build up digital COSCO. It has  developed and deployed IRIS-2, SAP, office automation, ship/shore  electronic information communication, ship engineering management,  shipping management and customer service systems. In 2008,  COSCO Group ranked the 2nd in Top 500 Chinese Enterprises for  Informationization.   COSCO brand has become the important intangible asset of COSCO  Group. Vessels and containers carrying COSCO logos shuffle  worldwide, becoming the image representative of China. Among  business sectors of COSCO Group, Penavico, sub-brands such as  COSCO Shipyard and CHIMBUSCO show strong vital force,  competitiveness and influence in production, operation and  management process, adding new colors to world-renowned COSCO  brand.   COSCO Group combines the performance of corporate social responsibilities and corporate development  strategies, actively cultivated green competitiveness and successfully enters the list of Fortune Global  500. Main indicators for internationalization operation are closing to UNs standards for Global 100  transnational companies. It is gradually enhancing its position as a system integrator in international  shipping, logistics and ports and ship-building and ship-repairing sectors and is marching towards a leading  enterprise in global shipping industry under the principle of globalized development, harmony and mutual  benefits and the century vision of building up a century-old COSCO.   
 15 Part III Basic profile of companies implementing sustainable  development management system  COSCO Group's 21 subsidiaries fully implemented the Global Compact in 2008. These subsidiaries cover  more than 90% of COSCO Group's main businesses and generate over 90% of COSCO Group's total  revenue.  I. Shipping   1. China COSCO Holdings Company Limited   China COSCO Holdings Company Limited (China COSCO) was established by COSCO Group  headquarters on March 3, 2005. In June 2005, China COSCO issued the H shares through global offering  and Hong Kong public offering, and started the trading on Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKSE) on June 30,  2005. On June 26, 2007, the company was listed in Shanghai Stock Exchange. (Stock code: 601919  1919.HK)  Nature: Stock limited company (listed)  Investment proportion: 53.57%  Total assets: RMB 116.8 billion   Employee number: 34,304  Business revenue: RMB 114.968 billion     Main businesses: Container shipping, dry & bulk cargo shipping, logistics, terminal and container  leasing  Subsidiaries: China COSCO owns COSCO Container Lines, COSCO Bulk Carrier, COSCO Qingdao,  COSCO Hong Kong, COSCO Shenzhen, COSCO Pacific and COSCO Logistics. China COSCO's  subsidiaries provide services covering entire shipping value chain such as container shipping, dry and  bulk cargo shipping, logistics, terminal and container leasing for customers home and abroad.   COSCO Container Lines, the fully-owned subsidiary of China COSCO, is engaged in container  shipping and other businesses. COSCO Container Lines operates 141 vessels with a total carrying  capacity of 496,317 TEUs, calls at more than 155 ports in over 53 countries and regions worldwide.  With 67 international shipping lines, 11 international branch lines, 21 domestic coastal shipping lines  and 59 branch lines in Yangtze River and Pearl River Delta Region, COSCO Container Lines owns and  operates over 400 domestic and overseas sales outlets. The bulk cargo fleet of China COSCO (including  COSCO Bulk Carrier, COSCO Qingdao, COSCO Hong Kong and COSCO Shenzhen) operates 443 dry  and bulk cargo ships, of which, 210 are owned by the company and 233 are leased from other  companies. These ships with the total carrying capacity of 34,361,005 DWTs form the largest dry and  bulk cargo fleet in the world. COSCO Logistics, the holding subsidiary of China COSCO, provides  comprehensive logistics services including third-party logistics, ship agent and cargo agent and  establishes over 400 branches in 29 provinces, municipalities, autonomous regions, Hong Kong as well  as overseas countries. COSCO Pacific, the holding subsidiary of China COSCO, operated 28 terminal  projects worldwide with a total of 146 berths. According to data released by Drewry in September 2008,  market occupancy of COSCO Terminal ranked the fifth in the world in 2007. The Florens Container  Holdings Co., Ltd affiliated to COSCO Pacific offers container leasing services, and owns and manages  1,621,222 TEUs, with container leasing service occupies 13.6% of global market shares, ranking the  No.2 in the world. China International Marine Containers operates container manufacturing business  through COSCO Pacific's shareholding of joint-operation companies. China International Marine  Containers is currently the world's largest container manufacturing company, taking over 50% of  market shares.    2. COSCO Container Lines Co., Ltd  COSCO Container Lines Co., Ltd (COSCO Container Lines)  established on Nov. 11, 1997 is a core enterprise specially engaged  in ocean container transport business.      
 16 Nature: Limited liability company  Investment proportion: 100% (held by China  COSCO)  Total assets: RMB 30.910 billion   Employee number: 15,724  Business revenue: RMB 39.080 billion    Main businesses: International and domestic maritime container transport  Subsidiaries: COSCO Container Lines owns 19 fully-owned and joint venture subsidiaries (including 8  domestic ones and 11 overseas ones).  The vessel fleet of COSCO Container Lines owns and operates 141 vessels with the total carrying  capacity of 496,317 TEUs, ranking the sixth in the world for total carrying capacity. Calling at more  than 155 ports in over 53 countries and regions, the vessel fleet of COSCO Container Lines runs 78  international shipping lines, 21 domestic coastal shipping lines and 59 branch lines in Yangtze River  and Pearl River Delta Region. COSCO Container Lines owns and operates over 400 domestic and  overseas sales and services outlets, forming wide sales and service network worldwide.    3. COSCO Bulk Carrier Co., Ltd   COSCO Bulk Carrier Co., Ltd (COSCO Bulk Carrier) was established  in 1995. Over the years, COSCO Bulk Carrier has insisted on the  operation and development strategies of integrating the functionalities  of ship-owner, charterer, broker shipper and FFA (five-in-one),  established marketing network and promoted the integration of bulk  cargo logistics, fulfilling the diversified, intensified and transnational  operation of shipping business.  COSCO Bulk Carrier establishes COSCO European Bulk Carrier Co., Ltd, COSCO American Bulk  Carrier Co., Ltd and COSCO Australian Bulk Carrier Co., Ltd at major overseas regions in form of  shareholding and joint venture, and opens its service outlets in many countries.  Nature: Limited liability company  Investment proportion: 100% (held by China COSCO)  Total assets: RMB 15.256 billion   Employee number: 6,254  Business revenue: RMB 40.302 billion     Main businesses: International dry and bulk cargo transport  Subsidiaries : COSCO Bulk Carrier owns over 15 full-owned and joint venture companies  The company owns and operates over 80 large bulk cargo vessels all types such as Handysize, Panamax  and Capesize, with the total carrying capacity of 4.9 million DWTs, and charters in 160 vessels. With  the total carrying capacity of over 17 million DWTs under control, COSCO Bulk Carrier mainly  provides ocean shipping services for such goods as grains, ores, coals, fertilizers, steels, woods and farm  products. Shipping lines of COSCO Bulk Carrier cover 1,000 ports in over 100 countries and regions.    4. Guangzhou Ocean Shipping Company  Guangzhou Ocean Shipping Company (COSCO Guangzhou) is a core  member affiliated to COSCO Group headquarters. Established on April  27, 1961 as the first state-owned ocean shipping enterprise of the newly  established China, COSCO Guangzhou is regarded as the "cradleland  for ocean shipping business of the new China" and "cradle of COSCO  Group". It is also China's largest multi-purpose ship transport company  mainly comprised of special professional vessel.  Nature: State-owned company  Investment proportion: 100%  Total assets: RMB 12.052 billion   Employee number: 6,640  Business revenue: RMB 8.974 billion     Main businesses: Multi-purpose ship transport business mainly comprised of special transport   Subsidiaries: COSCO Guangzhou owns 9 fully-owned or shareholding companies (COSCO Shipping  
 17 controlled by it is a listed company), and 13 fully-owned or shareholding on-land companies.  COSCO Guangzhou currently owns and operates 138 special ships and multi-purpose ships, with the  total carrying capacity of 2.399 million DWTs. With all kinds of special ships including  semi-submersible ships, heavy lift ships, multi-purpose ships, ro-ro ships, timber ships, asphalt ships,  bulk cargo ships and general cargo ships not only, COSCO Guangzhou takes leading positions in many  professional transport sectors. After years of operation in international shipping market, COSCO  Guangzhou has formed the global business network based in China and with Hong Kong, Japan, South  Korea, Singapore, U.S., Europe, Australia, Africa and Western Asia as the radiating points.  Shipping-tracks of the vessel fleet of COSCO Guangzhou cover 1,562 ports in 159 countries and  regions. COSCO Guangzhou also forms stable, reliable and competitive liner transport ability in Far East  to Mediterranean, North/West Europe, Persian Gulf, South/North America and Africa. Besides general  bulk cargos, the company also transports special, uncontainerable and super-large equipment,  super-heavy and long cargos such as drilling platform, naval ships, locomotives, dredgers, bridge cranes  and complete set of equipment, as well as cargos having special loading/unloading requirements such as  asphalts.    5. COSCO Shipping Co., Ltd  COSCO Shipping Co., Ltd (COSCO Shipping) was jointly established by  Guangzhou Ocean Shipping Company, COSCO Guangzhou Marine  Service Co., Ltd, Guangzhou Ocean Shipping Agency Co., Ltd, Shenzhen  Ocean Shipping Company and COSCO Guangzhou International Freight  Co., Ltd on Dec. 8, 1999. The company was listed at the Shanghai Stock  Exchange on April 18, 2002 (Stock code: 600428).  Nature: Limited liability company  Investment proportion: 50.13% (held by COSCO  Guangzhou)  Total assets: RMB 7.125 billion  Employee number: 4,701  Business revenue: RMB 6.901 billion    Main businesses: Ocean shipping and coastal shipping, intermodal transport by rail, sea and air (upon  business license), crew labor service, wholesale and retail trading (excluding commodities controlled  and managed solely by the State), ship agency, leasing, trading, repairing and building, loading and  unloading services; storage (dangerous goods excluded), labor service, product information service,  communication equipment repairing, and import/export goods shipment and agency; cargo import and  export, technical import and export (except for items prohibited by laws and administrative regulations;  licenses shall be obtain before operation of items limited by laws and administrative regulations);  dispatch of laborers to overseas countries (including seafarers, valid period: ended on May 13, 2014);  post introduction, labor information service, labor guarantee consultation (valid period: ended on April  30, 2009)  Subsidiaries: NYKCOS Car Carrier Co., Ltd, COSCO Shipping (Hong Kong) Investment, Tianjin  Ocean Shipping Company (COSCO Tianjin).  With the total registered capitals of 1.3104 billion yuan in 2008, COSCO Shipping owns and operates  84 ships including heavy lift ships, semi-submersible ships, ro-ro ships, multi-purpose ships and general  cargo ships. These ships have the average age of 21.1 years and the totally carrying capacity of 1.35  million DWTs. COSCO Shipping is mainly engaged in special general cargo ocean shipping and costal  shipping, specializing in transport of super-long, heavy, large and uncontainerable cargos and cargos  that have special transport and loading/unloading requirements. It also provides irregular transport  services to customers. COSCO Shipping mainly operates Far East-Bengal line, Far East-West African  line, and lines from Southeast Asia and Far East eastward to Persian Gulf, the Red Sea, Mediterranean  Sea, North and West Europe and North America, forming worldwide ocean shipping network for  special general cargos.          
 18 6. Qingdao Ocean Shipping Company   Qingdao Ocean Shipping Company (COSCO Qingdao) is a core  subsidiary of COSCO Group headquarters, and a large,  specialized international dry and bulk cargo transport company.  Nature: Limited liability company  Investment proportion: 100% (held by China COSCO)  Total assets: RMB 5.369 billion  Employee number: 5,078  Business revenue: RMB 9.413 billion    Main businesses: Dry and bulk cargo transport  Subsidiaries: COSCO Qingdao owns 16 fully-owned and shareholding on-land companies and a crew  service company.   COSCO Qingdao owns and operates 24 large dry and bulk cargo ships including Capesize, Panamax,  Handysize and Handymax, with the total carrying capacity of two million DWTs. With eight self-owned  Capesize vessels, COSCO Qingdao positions itself as the ocean shipping company with largest  Capesize vessel fleet. The vessel fleet of COSCO Qingdao provides services in the international lines  and domestic coastal markets, carrying various large batches of dry and bulk cargos. Meanwhile, it runs  such business as ship-leasing/renting, COA shipment and demise charter in the shipping market. In  respect to on-land industries, COSCO Qingdao has formed businesses such as crew labor service,  shipping-related service, international vessel management and trade, and property-buying and logistics.    7. Dalian Ocean Shipping Company  Dalian Ocean Shipping Company (COSCO Dalian) established on Jan. 1,  1978 is a large-scale shipping company affiliated to COSCO Group  headquarters, and COSCO Group's only specialized shipping company for  liquid bulk cargo transport.  Nature: State-owned company  Investment proportion: 100%  Total assets: RMB 7.716 billion  Employee number: 2,841  Business revenue: RMB 5.205 billion    Main businesses: Liquid bulk cargo transport focusing on oil tanker   Subsidiaries: COSCO Dalian has 20 on-land subsidiaries, of which, 5 are fully-owned enterprises, nine  are shareholding companies, while six are joint stock companies.  COSCO Dalian currently owns and operates over 38 vessels, including oil tankers, liquefied gas tankers  and chemical tankers, with the totally carrying capacity of 4.9 million DWTs. Scale of vessel fleet of  COSCO Dalian takes a leading position among enterprises of the same class. COSCO Dalian also owns  12 VLCCs, which are "flagship vessels" for profit-making and brand-building of the company. By  increasing its strength on development of international customers continually, and enhancing the  strategic cooperation with internationally renowned cargo owners, COSCO Dalian has managed to  expand its business scope to 300 ports in over 100 countries and regions.     8. Xiamen Ocean Shipping Company   Xiamen Ocean Shipping Company (COSCO Xiamen) established in October  1993 is a wholly-owned subsidiary of COSCO Group headquarters. Over the  years, the company has operated irregular bulk cargo lines from Far East to US  Gulf, and to Central/South America, which have been well received by cargo  owners home and abroad for their high-quality, safe, high-efficient and  convenient services, building up good brand image. In 2007, Wuyuan Liner for  passenger transport service between Xiamen and Jinmen set up COSCO  Groups brand in serving for passengers in Taiwan of small three links on  both sides of Taiwan Strait and received high praises from passengers and the  society.     
 19 Nature: State-owned company  Investment proportion: 100%  Total assets: RMB 1.069 million  Employee number: 89  Business revenue: RMB 837 million    Main businesses: International and regional dry and bulk cargo and general cargo transport, with a focus  on transport of grains, ores, coals, fertilizers, steels and bagged sugars and equipment  Subsidiaries: Besides developing ocean shipping business actively, COSCO Xiamen also operates and  manages businesses in related industries such as ship-repairing, container station and transport,  international crew training, tourism service, and "small three links" passenger transport.  COSCO Xiamen currently owns and operates 11 vessels of various types, including bulk carriers,  multi-purpose ships and high-speed passenger ships, with the total carrying capacity of 300,000 DWTs.  In addition, two timber ships with the carrying capacity of 32,000 DWTs each are in construction. After  the successful opening of Quanzhou-Jinmen direct passenger transport line, the company's Wuyuan  high-speed, luxury passenger liner built in Norway was put into use for Xiamen-Jinyuan passenger  transport line in October 2007.     9. COSCO (Hong Kong) Shipping Co., Ltd  COSCO (Hong Kong) Shipping Co., Ltd (COSCO Hong Kong) is a  member unit of COSCO Group headquarters, and an important  member of China Ocean Shipping Company. COSCO Hong Kong  was established by merger of Hong Kong Ocean Shipping Liner Co.,  Ltd (established in 1957) and Yifeng Shipping Company (established  in 1960) on Nov. 1, 1994.  Nature: Limited liability company  Investment proportion: 100% (held by China COSCO)  Total assets: RMB 20.930 billion  Employee number: 1,872  Business revenue: RMB 23.5 billion    Main businesses: Dry and bulk cargo transport including coals, grains, steels and steel products,  fertilizers, metal ores and nonmetal ores, ship leasing and consolidated cargo service  COSCO Hong Kong owns and operates 147 vessels, with the total carrying capacity of over 12 million  DWTs. Fleets include Handysize vessel fleet, Panama vessel fleet, Capesize vessel fleet and coastal  transport fleet.    II. Logistics   10. COSCO Logistics Co., Ltd  COSCO Logistics Co. Ltd (COSCO Logistics), co-established by COSCO  Group headquarters and China COSCO in Beijing on Jan. 8, 2002, is  China's largest Sino-foreign joint venture engaged in third party logistics  services.  Nature: Limited liability company  Investment proportion: 51% held by China COSCO and  49% held by COSCO Pacific  Total assets: RMB 8.437 billion  Employee number: 9,967  Business revenue: RMB 2.9 billion    Main businesses: Modern logistics, international ship agency, international multimodal transport, freight  forwarding, air transport agency, container yards management, warehousing, LCL service, railway, road  and barge transport, project development and management, chartering brokerage  Subsidiaries: COSCO Logistics headquartered in Beijing has eight regional companies in Dalian,  Beijing, Qingdao, Shanghai, Ningbo, Xiamen, Guangzhou and Wuhan under its affiliation. With nine  branches and representative offices in America, Europe, United Arad Emirater, South Korea, Japan,  Singapore, Greece and Hong Kong, COSCO Logistics has entered into long-term cooperation  
 20 agreement with over 40 cargo agencies in overseas countries. Besides, it opened 300 business outlets in  29 provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions in China, forming logistics network system with  complete functionalities.  Committed to the development of modern logistics, COSCO Logistics mainly provides high  value-added services for customers in auto logistics, household appliance logistics, chemical logistics,  power logistics, exhibition logistics and financing logistics based on its international network  advantages and segmented markets. COSCO Logistics has topped the China top 100 logistics  enterprises for four years in a row, won No. 1 in appraisal of various logistics awards in China's cargo  shipping industry, and was awarded the 2006 Lloyd's Freight Transport Buyer Asia's Best Third Party  Logistics Company in China.    11. COSCO Pacific Co., Ltd  COSCO Pacific Limited Co., (COSCO Pacific) is a Hong Kong-listed  company and a Hang Seng Index stock. COSCO Pacific is the worlds fifth  largest container terminal operator and the second largest container leasing  company. It holds 49% equities of COSCO Logistics, the largest logistics  company in China, and 21.8% equities of International Marine Containers  (Group) Ltd, worlds largest container manufacturer.   Nature: Limited liability company  Investment proportion: 51% held by China COSCO and 49%  held by independent shareholders  Total assets: RMB8.2 billion  Employee number: 2,492  Business revenue: 340 million dollars    Main businesses: container terminal, container lease, management and sale, logistics and container  manufacturing  Subsidiaries: Headquartered in Hong Kong, the company holds stocks of 28 terminal companies  worldwide. With respect to container lease business, the company sets up companies and representative  offices in Macao, Tianjin, Shanghai, Tokyo, Sidney, Singapore, San Francisco, New York, St. Paul,  London, Hamburg and Genoa, forming a globalized service network.   Till now, COSCO Pacific owns and operates 89 container terminal berths in 16 ports worldwide (13 ports  are in China and three ports are in overseas countries), with the annual throughput of 48.15 million  TEUs; It also operates eight bulk and general cargo terminal berths with annual throughput of 9.02  million tons and one automobile terminal berth, with the annual throughput of 600,000 units. In 2008,  COSCO Pacific processed a total of 45.878875 million TEUs and its throughput has increased by 17.7%,  accounting for 5.5% shares of global container terminal market. The container lease, management and  sales businesses of COSCO Pacific had increased continuously. As of Dec. 31, 2008, the size of  container fleet reached 1.62 million TEUs, accounting for over 13.6% of global market.  5.5% shares of  global container terminal market. The container lease, management and sales businesses of COSCO  Pacific had increased continuously. As of Dec. 31, 2008, the size of container fleet reached 1.62 million  TEUs, accounting for over 13.6% of global market.      III. Ship-building and ship-repairing   12. COSCO Shipyard Group Co., Ltd   COSCO Shipyard Group Co. Ltd (COSCO Shipyard) is a large  enterprise group affiliated to COSCO Group, specializing in large  vessels building, marine engineering's construction and conversion,  and providing with services in ship repairing and building sets. With  six large ship enterprises and eight ancillary service enterprises  Dalian,  Zhoushan,  Nantong,  Guangdong,  Shanghai  and  Lianyungang under its affiliation,  COSCO Shipyard has become the preferred partner for top shipping companies and offshore oil service  providers after seven years of leap-forward development.  
 21 Nature: Limited liability company  Investment proportion: 46.47%  Total assets: RMB 28.2 billion  Employee number: 8,790  Business revenue: RMB 16.5 billion    Main businesses: Large vessels building, marine engineering's construction and conversion, providing  of ship-repairing and building sets  Subsidiaries: Six large ship enterprises and eight ancillary service enterprises Dalian, Zhoushan,  Nantong, Guangdong, Shanghai and Lianyungang.  Now, the total docking capacity of COSCO Shipyard Group has arrived 1.85 million tons, including two  capacities of 300,000 tons floating docks, four capacities of 150,000~200,000 tons docks, six capacities  of 40,000~80,000 tons docks, 31 berths, two shipbuilding berths, and six water slides as well as three  supporting water splits. The total site areas is over 5.65 million square meters that forming a  "North-Middle-South" scientific and rational geographical distribution. COSCO Shipyard builds ship  models including: series 5000 barking space PCTC, 30,000 tons of series heavy lift multi-purpose ships,  57,000 tons of series bulk carriers, 80,000 tons of bulk carriers, and 92,500 tons carriers; marine project  including: the world's first drilling production storage oil vessel (FDPSO), cylindrical rigs, self-drilling  platform, semi-submersible offshore oil platforms.    13. COSCO Shipbuilding Industry Company  COSCO Shipbuilding Industry Company (COSCO Shipbuilding)  established in 1993 is a company directly affiliated to COSCO  Group headquarters with the total registered capital of 751.91  million yuan. The company plans to develop into world's top large  ship manufacturing enterprise within 5 to 10 years by following the  guidelines  of  "one  planning,  step-by-step  implementation,  coordinated arrangement and rolling development" and adopting the  development concept of "developing the main business of  shipbuilding and integrating auxiliary resources".  Nature: State-owned company  Investment proportion: 100%  Total assets: RMB 10.824 billion  Employee number: 3,622  Business revenue: RMB 5.173 billion    Main businesses: Shipbuilding and ship ancillary service  Subsidiaries: Fully-owned and joint venture enterprises affiliated to COSCO Shipbuilding include  Nantong COSCO KHI Ship Engineering Co., Ltd, Dalian COSCO Shipbuilding Industry Co., Ltd,  Nantong COSCO Ship Steel Structure Co., Ltd, Shanghai COSCO KHI Steel Structure Co., Ltd,  Nantong Ocean Ship Equipment Co., Ltd and Nanjing COSCO Ship-repairing and Ship Equipment  Plant.  Over a decade, COSCO Shipping had cooperated with Japan Kawasaki Heavy Industries Co., Ltd to  fulfill the "localization" and "recreation" of production management and technical management through  technical introduction, absorption and innovation. It had cooperated with U.K.-based Hardland Wolff to  design 150,000-ton Suezmax oil tanker and cooperated with Japan Kawasaki Heavy Industries to design  55,000-ton, 170,000-ton and 200,000-ton BCs and 300,000-ton VLOC. It is also engaged in detailed  design and production technique design of various ships and vessels independently. So far, it had  successfully delivered 52 large ships, including 300,000-ton VLCC, 5000PCC and 10000TEU, taking a  lead in the world in terms of technical capacity, production efficiency and product costs. It is China's  only ship-building company engaged in non-matching block merging, with the production capacity of  the company reached 2.4 million tons in 2008. After completion of Dalian ship-building base in 2010,  the annual production capacity of the company will reach five million DWTs.            
 22 IV. Others  14. China Marine Bunker (PetroChina) Co., Ltd  China Marine Bunker (PetroChina) Co. Ltd (CHIMBUSCO), the former  China Marine Bunker Supply Company, was established in 1972 under the  approval of the State Council. CHIMBUSCO is China's largest specialized  oil and water provider. On Dec. 26, 2003, the company was reformed as a  limited liability company, with COSCO Group headquarters and  PetroChina Company Limited as its shareholders.  Nature: Limited liability company  Investment proportion: 50%  Total assets: RMB 7.154 billion   Employee number: 1,655  Business revenue: RMB 35.995 billion    Main businesses: Providing fuel, lubricants and freshwater for ships for international routes and for  domestic coastal transportation, finished oil import, transport and storage of various oil products,  agency of oil products storage, supply, marketing and transport, and lubricant OEM business  Subsidiaries: CHIMBUSCO has over 30 member units home and abroad, including some most famous  regional subsidiaries or joint ventures in main ports in China such as Dalian, Qinhuangdao, Qingdao,  Lianyungang, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Zhanjiang, Ningbo, Zhoushan, Yantai, Rizhao, Xiamen,  Fangchenggang, Zhuhai, Nanjing, Nantong, Jiangyin, Jingjiang, Changzhou, Maoming, Shenzhen and  Hong Kong, and professional companies and outlets in overseas markets.  CHIMBUSCO has more than 103 ships, 18 oil depots with the total storage capacity of 1.24 million  cubic meters, and oil terminals and locomotive loading lines with complete facilities, which allows it to  provide comprehensive services of ship-owners, ship charterers, investors and equipment manufacturers  worldwide. During its service expansion and development processes, CHIMBUSCO also established  long-term, stable and extensive contact and cooperation relationships with major shipping companies,  oil companies and other customers in the world, building good reputations in both shipping and oil  industries.    15. Hainan Boao COSCO Co., Ltd  Hainan Boao COSCO Co., Ltd (Hainan Boao COSCO), the  former Hainan COSCO Boao Development Co., Ltd  established in August 2001, has been engaged in large-scaled  infrastructure construction for development of Boao and  establishment of Boao Forum for Asia.   After two years of assets restructuring and integration started in 2004, Hainan Boao COSCO was  established on March 20, 2006 as the second-tier subsidiary directly affiliated to COSCO Group  headquarters.  Nature: Limited liability company  Investment proportion: 99.38%  Total assets: RMB 1.519 billion   Employee number: 1,660  Business revenue: RMB 147 million    Main businesses: Conference affair reception, hotel, golf and scenic spot sightseeing  Subsidiaries: Sofitel Boao Grand Hotel, Boao Golden Coast Hot Spring Hotel, Boao Forum Asia  International Convention Center Golf Club, Boao Forum for Asia Site and Scenic Spot Management  Company and Hainan Boao International Convention Co., Ltd.  Hainan Boao COSCO mainly engaged in development, construction, operation and management of  auxiliary facilities of Boao Forum for Asian has established Boao Golden Coast Hot Spring Hotel, Palm  Island Hotel and Townhouses, Binlang Island Townhouses, BFA International Convention Center,  Sofitel Boao Grand Hotel, 18-hole golf club and many infrastructures. Total construction area of Hainan  Boao COSCO in Boao is near to 170,000 square meters, with the total investment of more than three  billion yuan. Besides holding the annual Boao Forum for Asia, these sites will receipt tourists for  750,000 person-times and over 200 intermediate and high-grade classes home and abroad.     
 23 16. China Ocean Shipping Tally Company  China Ocean Shipping Tally Company established in 1961 is a core  state-owned company specialized in shipping tally business approved by the  Ministry of Communications and registered at the State Administration for  Industry and Commerce. It is formerly affiliated to the State-owned Assets  Supervision and Management Commission under the State Council and was  reformed into a fully-owned subsidiary of COSCO Group headquarters  according to the spirits on reforms of state-owned companies of the  State-owned Assets Supervision and Management Commission under the State  Council.   Nature: State-owned company  Investment proportion: 100%  Total assets: RMB 300 million  Employee number: 222  Business revenue: RMB 105 million    Main businesses: China Ocean Shipping Tally vessel tally business for international and domestic  shipping lines, container tally business home and abroad, container loading and unloading tally  business, cargo measurement, loading/unloading supervision, cargo damage and container damage  inspection business   Subsidiaries: China Ocean Shipping Tally owns over 80 branches and limited companies in China,  covering main ports such as Shanghai, Ningbo, Tianjin, Qingdao, Dalian, Xiamen, Fuzhou, Shenzhen  and Guangzhou.  Insisting the criteria of "holding fair attitude, seeking truth from facts and protection legal rights and  interests of consignors, China Ocean Shipping Tally has made explorations and innovations  continuously and increased scientific inputs and talent cultivation efforts, making great contributions to  the country's reform and opening policy and development of shipping and foreign trade businesses.     17. COSCO Human Resources Co., Ltd / COSCO Manning Cooperation Inc.  COSCO Human Resources Co., Ltd and COSCO Manning Cooperation  Inc (COSCO Manning) were merged into a professional company  specialized in international labor cooperation and human resources  development directly affiliated to COSCO Group headquarters in 2000.  Nature: State-owned company  Investment proportion: 100%  Total assets: RMB 46.57 million  Employee number: 1,029  Business revenue: RMB 65 million    Main businesses: Dispatching crews and laborers to overseas markets  Subsidiaries: Shanghai COSCO Manning Cooperation Co., Ltd, Qingdao COSCO Manning  Cooperation Co., Ltd, Shenzhen COSCO International Ship Management Co., Ltd and Beijing COSCO  Business Consultation Co., Ltd.  COSCO Human Resources Co., Ltd / COSCO Manning Cooperation Inc. have been endeavored to  provide qualified seamen and other laborers as well as high quality, high efficient and satisfactory  services to customers home and abroad. It has established close cooperation relationships with  customers home and abroad, forming nationwide business network and has dispatched seamen and other  laborers for more than 130,000 person-times. COSCO Human Resources Co., Ltd / COSCO Manning  Cooperation Inc. were awarded the China Award of the Best HR Outsourcing Institution issued by the  regulatory departments of the State for many times. In 2008, it was appraised as one of the first batch of  International Labor Service Enterprise Credit Evaluation AAA Credit Enterprises.              
 24 18. COSCO Finance Co., Ltd  COSCO Finance Co., Ltd (COSCO Finance), the former finance  company of COSCO Group, was established in October 1993 with  the total registered capitals of 800 million yuan (including 20  million dollars) as a non-banking financial institute directly  affiliated to COSCO Group headquarters. Approved by the People's  Bank of China, the company was transformed into a limited liability  company from a fully-owned subsidiary of COSCO Group  headquarters in September 1999.   With the approval of the China Banking Regulatory Commission, it increased its share capital again in  December 2005. Currently, the company was jointly invested and held by COSCO Group headquarters  and 12 member units.  Nature: Limited liability company  Investment proportion: 40.63% (other equities are  held by member units)  Total assets: RMB 19.112 billion  Employee number: 53  Business revenue: RMB 732 million    Main businesses: Loan, financing lease, bill acceptance and discounting for member units of COSCO  Group, internal account transfer and settlement between member units, design of settlement and  clearance plans, absorption of deposits of member units and negotiable securities investment  Since its establishment, COSCO Finance has operated in compliance with related laws and regulations,  as well as the supervision requirements of the People's Bank of China and the China Banking  Regulatory Commission. With excellent asset quality, all financial indicators are complying with  financial supervision and control requirements, with favorable economic and social benefits achieved.    19. China Ocean Shipping News Magazine  With the first issue published in 1994, China Ocean Shipping  News originally named COSCO Group News is an official  newspaper managed by COSCO Group headquarters' Party  Group and published by COSCO Group headquarters. In 1996,  it was renamed China Ocean Shipping News upon the approval  of Beijing Press and Publishing Bureau.   Approved by the General Administration of Press and Publication, China Ocean Shipping News started  the official publication for the whole society in September 1998. With the publication number of  CN11-0261, the cross-fold, eight-page newspaper is published on every Monday.  Nature: State-owned company  Investment proportion: 100%  Employee number: 9    Main businesses: Based on COSCO Group, China Ocean Shipping News serves as a supplement that  covers ocean shipping, ship-building/ship-repairing, ship supply, ship agency and cargo agent industry  in China while reporting the general news of COSCO Group, international shipping news, latest trends  and ocean rhymes  China Ocean Shipping News had won the Advanced Newspaper Prize of the National Public Issuing  Enterprise Newspapers, the highest honor bestowed to the national enterprise newspapers, for three  consecutive years. It was also awarded the No.1 Prize of China Enterprise Groups' Selected Newspaper  in 2005 and the National Excellent Newspaper of Printing Quality in 2006. Since its public issuance,  over 200 articles were awarded Good News Prizes and Excellent Essay Prizes of National Enterprise  Newspapers.            
 25 20. Maritime China Magazine  Maritime China magazine is a professional magazine for shipping,  logistics, ports and ship-building/ship-repairing published by COSCO  Group headquarters and managed by the Ministry of Communications.  Since the first issuance in January 1995, Maritime China has been  adhering to the tenet of "basing upon China's shipping industry,  focusing on international logistics industry, making friends worldwide  and serving global businessmen" and has been published on the first day  of each month.  Nature: State-owned company  Investment proportion: 100%  Total assets: RMB 300,000  Employee number: 9  Business revenue: RMB 2 million    Main businesses: publication and issuance of Maritime China magazine, ad services home and abroad,  release of ads for foreign businessmen in China, photography, organizing of culture exchange activities,  and economic information consultation  The Maritime China magazine has enjoyed high reputation home and abroad. In recent years, it had  organized many industry's widely watched and influential International Shipping (China) Annual  Summits as one of the sponsors.     V. Overseas companies   21. COSCO (UK) Ltd.  COSCO (U.K.) Ltd is a fully-owned subsidiary of COSCO Group headquarters, with the registration  number of 2216271, the registered capital of GBP 200,000, and the share capital of one million shares. It  commenced the business operation on Feb. 16, 1989.  Nature: Limited liability company  Investment proportion: 100%  Total assets: GBP 1.4715 million  Employee number: 32  Business revenue: GBP 8.728 million    Main businesses: cargo transport, logistics business, bulk cargo ship tax leasing, container ship leasing  Subsidiaries: COSCO (U.K.) Logistics Ltd, COSCO Chartering & Brokerage (U.K.) Ltd and COSCO  Maritime (U.K.) Ltd.  Container-related departments and businesses of the former COSCO (U.K.) Ltd were hedged off to set  up COSCO Container Lines (U.K.) Ltd. COSCO (U.K.) Ltd retained the subsidiaries and departments  that are not engaged in container agency businesses. Currently, COSCO (U.K.) headquarters has 6  employees, including 1 employee dispatched from China. Subsidiaries of COSCO (U.K.) have a total of  26 employees, of which, 2 employees are dispatched from China.    XI. Changes of scale, structure and property within reporting period  In 2008, COSCO Group headquarters increased 18,662,678 shares of stocks of China COSCO Holdings  Co., Ltd in secondary market, increase the stock proportion from 53.57% to 53.75%.                     
 26 Part IV Awards  I. Awards relating to Global Compact and social responsibilities                     1     COSCO Group Sustainable Development Report was appraised as notable  COP by the United Nations for three consecutive years, making COSCO  Group the first Asian enterprise that has entered the list of notable COPs for  three years.   2    COSCO Group was awarded the Job Creation Award of the U.S.  3    COSCO Group was awarded the China Charity Award by the 2008 China  Charity Conference sponsored by the Ministry of Civil Affairs.   4    In 2008, COSCO Group was awarded the most valuable example award for  corporate social responsibilities as it actively shoulders corporate social  responsibilities and feeds back to the society warm-heartedly.   5    COSCO Group wins the honorable title of Top 10 Chinese Green  Responsibility Enterprise.   6    COSCO Group was appraised as one of the 14 winners of 2008 Green Flag  Award by the port of Long Beach for four years in succession.  7    COSCO Group headquarters won 2008 Exemplary Chinese Green Company.  8    Zhang Liang, Vice President of COSCO Group, won the honorable title of  Anti-disaster and Traffic Guarantee Hero of National Traffic Industry.  Shenzhen Ocean Shipping won the honorable title of Advanced Collective  for Anti-disaster and Traffic Guarantee of National Traffic Industry.   9    COSCO Hong Kong won the honorable title of 2008 Advanced Collective  for Fighting Rain, Snow, Ice and Frost Disasters by the SASAC.   10    COSCO Bulk Carrier won the honorable title of AAA Labor Relation  Harmonious Enterprise of Tianjin.   11    COSCO Logistics topped the 2007-2008 Outstanding Contribution Award of  Chinese Logistics Enterprises and Most Responsible Enterprise Award.   12    COSCO Shipping won the honorable title of safe and honest company in  traffic system.   13    COSCO International won the 2008/2009 Cares of Business Circle logo by  the Hong Kong Council of Social Services to award the companies efforts to  care about the society and actively shoulder corporate social responsibilities  in the past year.   
 27 II. A summary of international and domestic awards won by COSCO Group in 2008  1    Capt. Wei Jiafu, President of COSCO Group, was awarded the Top 30  Persons Most Influential for Chinas Economy in Past 30 Years Since the  Reform and Opening up of China, the Top 10 Leading Personnel of Traffic  and Logistics Industry in Past 30 Years Since the Reform and Opening up of  China, the Medal for Reform of Chinese Enterprises, and the Lifelong  Contribution Award of Chinas Cargo Transport Industry.    2    Capt. Wei Jiafu won the Special Contribution Award in 60 Years of  Development of Chinese Shipping Industry and was appraised as the  Characters of the Blue Chronicle in Chinese Shipping Industry. Sun  Jiakang, General Manager of COSCON, and Xu Huixing, General Manager  of COSCO Guangzhou, were also appraised as the Characters of the Blue  Chronicle in Chinese Shipping Industry.  3    Capt. Wei Jiafu won the Commodore Award issued by the Shipping  Association of Connecticut State.   4    Capt. Wei Jiafu as Chairman of China COSCO won the Best CEO Award  for Investors Relationships of Chinese Enterprises Listed in Hong Kong.  5    The Board of Directors of China COSCO and COSCO International were  awarded the 2008 Outstanding Director Award -- Board of Directors Award  of Listed Companies (Hong Kong Stock Exchange  Non-Hang Seng Index  Constituent Stock) respectively. Wei Jiafu, Chairman of China COSCO won  the 2008 Outstanding Director Award  Managing Director Award of Listed  Companies (Hong Kong Stock Exchange  Non-Hang Seng Index  Constituent Stock). Liu Guoyuan, former Vice President and Managing  Director of COSCO International won the Outstanding Director Award of  the same group.  6    COSCO Group headquarters ranked the 2nd in the list of Top 500 Chinese  enterprises for informationization. Vice President and CIO of Li Jianhong  won the Annual Leader Award for Informationization of Enterprises.  COSCON ranked the 19th, COSCO Bulk Carrier ranked the 41th, COSCO  Guangzhou ranked the 105th and COSCO Shipyard ranked the 159th.  COSCO Group headquarters and COSCON, COSCO Bulk Carrier and  COSCO Shipyard also won many awards including the Contribution Award  for Group Informationization, the Best IT Governance Award, the  Outstanding Team Award for Informationization Construction and the  Best ERP Application Award.   7    Ye Weilong, General Manager of COSCO Logistics won the 2007-2008  Outstanding Contribution Award of Chinese Logistics Industry and the  honorable title of Outstanding Contributor of Chinese Logistics Industry.   8    China COSCO ranked among top 10 places in comprehensive ranking of  companies listed in Hong Kong Stock Exchange and won the title of 2008  Most Competitive Chinese Company Listed in Hong Kong.   9    COSCON and COSCO Bulk Carrier won the honorable title of 2008  National Civilization Units.   
 28 10    China COSCO ranked the 242nd in the 2008 Global 500 List released by  Financial Times, a renowned magazine in U.K., and ranked the 13rd among  29 enterprises in China Mainland that enter the list (including red chip  companies in Hong Kong).   11    In the appraisal of Top 10 Chinese Listed Companies for Market Value  Management in 2008, China COSCO ranked the 19th and COSCO Shipping  ranked the 27th.   12    China COSCO successfully entered top 20 places in the List of Top 100  Chinese Listed Companies in 2008.  13    China COSCO won the Greatest Contribution Award in the appraisal of  national contribution award for Out-going of Chinese Enterprises for its  advantageous internationalization strategies and outstanding achievements in  internationalization operation.   14    COSCON won the Best Carrier Award for Far East/Canada East Shipping  Lines issued by CIFFA again. It was the 7th time in a row for COSCON to  win this honorable title.  15    China COSCO and COSCO Shipping were included in the List of Top 100  A-stock Chinese Companies for Investors Relationships in 2008. In  addition, China COSCO also won the Best IR Homepage Award.   16    A total of 18 vessels including Changqiang Liner of COSCO Hong Kong  won the QUALSHIP 21 certificate.   17    COSCO Logistics ranked the 1st in Top 10 Chinese Logistics Companies in  2008 again. It was the fourth time in a row for COSCO Logistics to win the  honorable title.  18    COSCO Logistics won 10 golden awards, 4 silver awards and 2 bronze  awards in the appraisal of 6th China Cargo Transport Industry Award.   19    Yu Guohua, a captain from COSCON, Xiao Jianchi, commissar of COSCO  Guangzhou, Jiang Ning from Nantong COSCO KHI Ship Engineering Co.,  Ltd of Dalian COSCO Shipbuilding Industry Co., Ltd and Wang Xingru,  General Manager of COSCO Shipyard won the National May Day Medal.  20    China COSCO won the Best Board of Directors Award in appraisal of 5th  Golden Roundtable Awards. COSCO Shipping won the honorable title of  Golden Roundtable Excellent Board of Directors again, the third time in a  row of COSCO Shipping to win the award since 2007.   21    COSCO Qingdao won the honorable title of the National Excellent Unit for  Corporate Culture in Past 30 Years Since Reform and Opening of China.  22   Tianhui Liner of COSCO Qingdao won the honorable title of the National  Youth Civilization. 23   Ye Longwen, captain of COSCO Guangzhou, won the Lifelong Contribution  Award in Shipping Industry.   24   Taiankou Liner of COSCO Shipping was awarded the honorable title of the  National Worker Pioneer by the All-China Federation of Trade Unions.                    
 29 Part V  General information of the report  This report is a vivid reflection of COSCO Group's efforts to implement the Global Compact, perform  social responsibility in a scientific manner, fulfill the scientific development outlook, carry out the  Guidelines for Social Responsibilities of Enterprises Directly under the Central Government and the  Guidelines for Comprehensive Risk Management of Enterprises Directly under the Central Government  issued by the State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration of China (SASAC). It is a portrait to  operation results of COSCO Group's sustainable development management system and of the operation of  sustainable development information management platform and the sustainable development information  management platform, the carrier for COSCO Group to accept supervision of the society and the bridge for  COSCO Group to communicate with other stakeholders.  I. Scope of report   COSCO Group Sustainable Development Report 2008 covers largely the same scope as does the Report  2005, 2006 and 2007. It is complied according to the 2006 edition of GRI standards, and covers all the  indicators of the COSCO Group. The Report includes management methods and performance indicators of  COSCO Group headquarters and all its second-tier companies, shipping, logistics & ports, and  ship-building/repairing companies.   COSCO Group applies six-sigma C&E methods to scientific define the reporting scope in the supply chain  and quantitizes the setup boundary decision-making trees of GRI (see attached chart). It only narrates  issues and difficulties of third-tier enterprises that have less controlling ability and little influences on  sustainable development excluding shipping, logistics and ship-building/repairing companies. Besides  reporting related information in COSCO Group Sustainable Development Report, COSCO Group also  reports the situation of container transport industry which has great influences of sustainable development.  Since 2006, the COSCON Sustainable Development Report was released independently to systematically  report the situation for performance of social responsibilities strategies. As a listed company, China  COSCO released the China COSCO Sustainable Development Report based on the 2008 annual report to  systematically disclose the situation for performance of social responsibilities.   Matrix for decision-making on reporting degree and form of   COSCO Group Sustainable Development Report  Item  Strategies and  general information Governance and  management  Economic  performance  Environmental  performance  Labor  Human rights  Society  Products  Reporting form    Scale and influences  Supervision  Requirements of  supply chain Finance  Social investment  Energy-conservation  and low carbon Anti-pollution  Safety  Human Resources  Collective bargaining Non-discrimination  Community  Anti-corruption  Service product  quality Marketing    
 30 Serial No.  Description  1- Common size; 4- Middle size; 9- Large size  1-No requirements; 4-Encouraging requirements; 9-Externally compulsory requirements  1-No requirements; 4-Encouraging requirements; 9-Compulsory requirements  1- Common; 4- Middle; 9-Large financial indicator  1-Non-continuous investment; 4-Continuous investment; 9-Special investment  1-Energy conservation of low power consumption industry; 4-Energy conservation of common  power consumption industry; 9- Energy conservation of high power consumption industry  1-Anti-pollution  of  low-risk  industry;  4-Anti-pollution  of  common-risk  industry;  9-Anti-pollution of high-risk industry  1-Low-risk industry; 4-Common-risk industry;9-High-risk industry  1-Low-reliance industry; 4-Common-reliance industry; 9-High-reliance industry  1-Low-reliance industry; 4-Common-reliance industry; 9-High-reliance industry  1-Industry where unequal treatment is not easily to occur; 4-Common industry;9-Industry  where unequal treatment is easily to occur 1-Industry with small influences on communities; 4-Industry with common influences on  communities; 9-Industry with large influences on industries  1-Low-risk industry; 4-Common-risk industry;9-High-risk industry  1-Low-risk industry; 4-Common-risk industry;9-High-risk industry  1-Low-risk industry; 4-Common-risk industry;9-High-risk industry  Group report: uniform report of the group where key descriptions are emphasized in chapters;  Industry report: professional report auxiliary with sub-report of the group report;  Appendix of annual report: disclosed as attachment or independently disclosed in annual report  of the listed companies;  1  China COSCO  Holdings  9  9  1  4  4  1 1  1  4 4 1 1  4  1  1  Appendix of   the annual  report  2  COSCO  Container Lines  9  4  1  9  4  9 4  9  4 4 4 1  4  9  4  Industry report  3  COSCO Bulk  Carrier  4  4  1  4  4  4 4  4  4 4 4 1  4  4  4  Group report  
 31 4  COSCO Hong  Kong  4  4  1  4  4  4 4  4  4 4 4 1  4  4  4  Group report  5  COSCO Qingdao  4  4  1  4  4  4 4  4  4 4 4 1  4  4  4  Group report  6  COSCO  Logistics  4  4  1  4  4  4 4  4  4 4 4 1  4  4  4  Group report  7  COSCO Pacific  4  4  1  4  4  4 4  4  4 4 4 4  4  4  4  Group report  8  COSCO  Guangzhou  4  4  1  4  4  4 4  4  4 4 4 1  4  4  4  Group  report       9    COSCO Dalian  4  4  9  4  4  4 9  9  4 4 4 1  4  4  4  Group  report 1 0  COSCO Xiamen  4  4  1  4  4  4 4  4  4 4 4 1  4  4  4  Group  report 
 32 1 1  COSCO  Shipping  4  9  1  4  4  4 4  4  4 4 1 1  4  4  4  Append ix of  the  annual  report 1 2  COSCO  Shipbuilding  Industry  4  4  4  4  4  4 4  9  4 4 9 9  4  4  4  Group  report 1 3  COSCO  Shipyard  4  4  4  4  4  4 4  9  4 4 9 9  4  4  4  Group  report 1 4  China Maritime  Bunker  4  4  1  4  4  4 4  4  4 4 4 4  4  4  4  Group  report 1 5  Hainan Boao  COSCO  1  1  4  1  9  4 4  4  4 4 1 9  4  9  4  Group  report 1 6  China Ocean  Shipping Tally  1  1  1  4  4  1 1  4  4 4 1 1  4  4  4  Group  report 1 7  COSCO Human  Resources/COSC O Manning  1  1  4  1  1  1 1  4  9 4 4 1  4  4  4  Group  report 
 33 1 8  COSCO Finance  1  4  1  4  1  1 1  1  1 4 1 1  4  4  1  Group  report 1 9  COSCO U.K.  4  4  4  4  4  4 4  4  4 4 4 4  4  4  4  Group  report 2 0  China Ocean  Shipping News  1  4  1  1  1  1 1  1  1 1 1 1  1  1  1  Group  report 2 1  Maritime China  Magazine  1  4  1  1  1  1 1  1  1 1 1 1  1  1  1  Group  report The report is compiled in both Chinese and English and audit of the report will be based on the Chinese  version.  The online version is available at http://www.cosco.com. The COSCO Group Sustainable Development  Report is also available at http://www.unglobalcompact.org, the website appointed by the United Nations  Global Compact Office.   The COSCO Group Sustainable Development Report 2008 is edited according to the normal fiscal year.  Unless specified, all information contained in the Report is COSCO Group's sustainable development  performance in 2008.  Contact person: Ma Xinying  Title: Manager, Quality Management Office, Strategic Development Division, CoSco Group  Tel/Fax: 86-10-66492565 / 86-10-66492288  E-mail: maxy@cosco.com                      
34 II. Report compilation principles   The COSCO Group Sustainable Development Report 2008, compiled according to the 2006 Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines for Sustainable Development Report, combines the ten principles of  the United Nations Global Compact and the special requirements for maritime companies from the  International Maritime Organization, and satisfies the requirements in the Comprehensive Risk  Management for Enterprises Directly under the Central Government and the Guidelines for Social  Responsibilities of Enterprises Directly under the Central Government issued by the State-Owned Assets  Supervision and Administration of China and the Basic Specification for Internal Control of Listed  Companies issued by five ministries and commissions including the Ministry of Finance.  Based on the 2006 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines and the basic principles that define  contents of the reporting contents, such as key factors, participation of stakeholders, sustainable  development background and integrality, COSCO Group compiled the COSCO Group sustainable  development reporting framework and COSCO Group sustainable development indicators definition table.  Based the 2007 edition of report, it optimized, divided and supplemented the indicators, and brought the  requirements of related parties to index-based management system and compiled the 2008 Edition of  COSCO Group Sustainable Development Indicator System and Definition and Material Framework Table  with 647 key process indicators and key risk indicators. The report is compiled according to the  requirements of sustainable development indicator system.   With an aim to ensure the quality of report, the COSCO Group Sustainable Development Report was  compiled based on the principles of pertinent, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clearness and reliability  to ensure the transparency.   Pertinent  Comparability  Accuracy  Timeliness  Clearness  Reliability  COSCO  Group  Sustainable  Development  Report reflects  the overall  situation of  performance  of the institute  in a  comprehensiv e manner  without  exaggeration  to avoid  influencing  the judgment  of readers. It  applies  six-sigma  failure mode  analysis  method to  conduct  influential  degree  evaluation to  ensure the key  factors of the  report and  ensure the  Since the  implementation  of the Global  Compact,  COSCO Group  has ensured the  consistency of  the reporting  form. COSCO  Group has  established  sustainable  development  indicator system  and sustainable  development  information  management  platform to  ensure the  comparability of  reporting  indicators. It also  applies six-sigma  methods to  analyze and  compare the  data. In the  meantime, the  report provides  five years of day  COSCO  Group  sustainable  development  indicator  system and  material  architect are  compiled,  collected and  analyzed  based on the  sustainable  development  reporting  framework to  ensure full  preparation of  the  information,  and applies  different tools  in different  aspects to  analyze the  consistency of  the results.  COSCO  Group  Sustainable  Development  Report was  released  according to  the specified  procedures  and plans  strictly. In  December of  each month,  the report  indicator and  material  collection  work are  carried out. In  April of next  month,  compilation of  the report is  completed. In  June, the  report is  submitted to  the external  institutes for  review and  acceptance.  COSCO  Group  Sustainable  Development  Report  showcases its  performance  in many  reporting  platforms to  stakeholders,  including  online  version,  Chinese and  English  printed  version and  video version.  In  consideration  of paper  conservation,  the  Sustainable  Development  Report mainly  adopts online  version. The  printed  version is only  With an aim  to ensure the  reliability of  the report,  COSCO  Group  innovatively  puts forwards  16 steps for  establishment  and operation  of sustainable  development  management  system, and  has  established  social  responsibility  report  compilation  process and  communicatio n mechanism.  It has applied  18 evaluation  and  improvement  processes to  complete the  report quality  
35 direct ratio  between  degree of  influences of  reporting  items and its  relative key  factors.  Besides  reporting  achievements,  the report also  discloses  negative  performance  of the group.  in succession for  stakeholders to  analyze the  performance of  COSCO Group.  The report  will be  released  before July 31  to ensure its  timeliness.  used for  large-scaled  conference,  concentrated  promotional  activities and  submittal to  related parties.  Discs are  provided for  common  communicatio ns.  The video  version of the  sustainable  development  report is  accompanied  with a video,  allowing  readers to  know COSCO  Groups  sustainable  development  performance  in 2008.  control  process from  all aspects  such as  indicator  collection,  material  collection,  report  framework,  report  compilation,  draft report,  report  revision,  report review,  internal audit,  review by  experts  committee,  external  review and  communicatio ns with related  parties.     III. Report guarantee methods   COSCO Group cautiously issues the sustainable develop report with the attitude of being responsible to the  society and takes the improvement of reliability of the sustainable development report as the main content  to make continuous improvements.  COSCO Group establishes the sustainable development report reliability and quality guarantee mechanism  and continuously improves the sustainable development report through a series of review, audit, inspection  and evaluation processes.                                     
36 All financial data in the report are complying with the Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises and  the Enterprise Accounting System, and are audited according to the China Internal Auditing Standards  COSCO Group organizes internal audit and evaluation of its sustainable development report according to  AA1000 Sustainable Development Report Audit Standards and applies lean six-sigma and risk evaluation  methods to determine the auditing period and frequency (please see decision-making chart). The COSCO  Group headquarters arranges the audit and evaluation uniformly to standardize the Global Compact  implementing behaviors and sustainable development report compilation process.  Item  Governa nce and  manage ment  Econo mic  influen ces  Risks  Importance of audit    Supervisi on or  supply  chain  require ment  Financia l scale  influenc es  Energy-conser vation and low  carbon  Anti-pollu tion  Labor  risks  Huma n right  risks Anti-corru ption risks    Description  1-9- No requirements - Externally  compulsory requirements  1-9-Little financial influences to great  financial influences  1-9 Energy conservation of low power  consumption industry - Energy conservation  of high power consumption industry  1-9 Pollution of low-risk industry  Pollution  of high risk industry  1-9 Low-risk industry  - High-risk industry  1-9 Industry where unequal treatment is not  easily to occur - Industry where unequal  treatment is easily to occur  1-9 Low-risk industry - High-risk industry  Review frequency: every two year for red  region; every three year for yellow region;  every four year for white region  Multiplication with governance and economic influences after getting addictions  COSCO  Dalian  9  4  4  9  9  4  4  1080  COSCO  Container  Lines  4  9  9  4  9  4  4  1080  China  COSCO  Holdings  9  9  1  1  1  1  4  648  COSCO  Shipping  9  4  4  4  4  1  4  612  COSCO  Shipyard  4  4  4  4  9  9  4  480  COSCO  hipbuilding  Industry  4  4  4  4  9  9  4  480  COSCO  Bulk Carrier  4  4  4  4  4  4  4  320  COSCO  Hong Kong  4  4  4  4  4  4  4  320  COSCO  Qingdao  4  4  4  4  4  4  4  320  COSCO  Logistics  4  4  4  4  4  4  4  320  COSCO  Pacific  4  4  4  4  4  4  4  320  
37 COSCO  Guangzhou  4  4  4  4  4  4  4  320  COSCO  Xiamen  4  4  4  4  4  4  4  320  China  Maritime  Bunker  4  4  4  4  4  4  4  320  COSCO  U.K.  4  4  4  4  4  4  4  320  COSCO  Finance  4  4  1  1  1  1  4  128  China Ocean  Shipping  Tally  1  4  1  1  4  1  4  44  China Ocean  Shipping  News  4  1  1  1  1  1  1  20  Maritime  China  Magazine  4  1  1  1  1  1  1  20  Hainan Boao  COSCO  1  1  4  4  4  1  4  17  COSCO  Human  Resources/C OSCO  Manning  1  1  1  1  4  4  4  15    COSCO Group makes management innovation with ISO9000 Quality Management System as basic  building blocks, quality, environment and safety management systems as the base, and the sustainable  development and risk management as the main contents, and forms an indicator-based sustainable  development management system to implement all sustainable development requirements and indicators to  processes and posts. The third party certification of the management system effectively ensures the  reliability of report data.   COSCO Group establishes the COSCO Group sustainable development information management system  and establishes information safety management system based on ISO27000 information safety management  standards to ensure the authenticity, integration and accuracy of data in the report, and to improve the  substantiality, integrity, comparability, accuracy and reliability of the sustainable development report  continuously.  COSCO Group invites senior responsible persons in charge of social responsibilities of major stakeholders  home and abroad to form a COSCO Group sustainable development expert committee to supervise the  entire process of sustainable development work of COSCO Group, including Global Compact China  Network Center Office, regulatory institute of the State, supervision department, R&D department,  transnational companies, strategic partners, suppliers, customers, media, academic circle and related  persons.  To ensure the authenticity and reliability, COSCO Group has submitted the report to the Det Norske  Veritas (DNV) for review and evaluation according to the Reviewing Procedure of Sustainable  Development Report, with an independent audit report to be provided.   In addition, COSCO Group invited stakeholders and media to offer suggestions in a move to urge COSCO  Group to make constant improvements on the report.  Please visit COSCO Group's official website at http://www.cosco.com for more information about COSCO  Group's strategic objectives and the economic, environmental and social influences of its operation and  production activities.     
38 IV. Scope and level of the report   COSCO fully adopts the core indicators of the 2006 GRI Guideline to systematically report all management  and performance indicators of GRI. After strict evaluation, GRI believes that the COSCO Group  Sustainable Development Report 2007 reports on key core indicators as specified in GRI standards and  meets GRI standards of A+ rating. Therefore, it agrees COSCO Group to use GRI A+ logo. Thus, COSCO  Group fulfilled the target of obtaining GRIs highest rating (A+) two years ahead of schedule after three  years of efforts in 2005 to 2007. It is the first Chinese enterprise whose sustainable development report gets  GRI A+ rating. This stabilizes COSCO Groups position in sustainable development report sector of China.   The statistical scope of the Sustainable Development Report 2008 is the same with the Sustainable  Development Report 2007, and the application level of release level is A+.  The report has been submitted to GRI for inspection to make final rating (highest level A+) on reporting  level.         C  C+  B  B+  A  A+  Compulsory  Self-rating of enterprises             Voluntary  Third party audit                GRI inspection comment                                             
39 Part B Management and Participation of Stakeholders  Part I Corporate Governance Structure  1. Top management team   The State Council authorizes the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission  (SASAC) to manage the talents, affairs and assets of large-scaled state-owned enterprises. The SASAC has  the right to appoint main responsible persons of enterprises. As COSCO Group is a large-scaled  state-owned enterprise, its management team is evaluated and appointed by the State-owned Assets  Supervision and Administration Commission. Shouldering the responsibilities of well developing the  enterprise and realizing the prosperity of state-owned economy, COSCO Group's management team, with  strong responsibilities and good spirit, organizes its crews and employees, to create good performances.         
40 2. Related committees  COSCO Group headquarters, together with its subsidiaries in home and abroad establishes various  management committees with corresponding management functionalities to listen to related parties'  opinions and suggestions on corporate management, evaluate and appraise various management systems  and business operation processes, revise market strategies and objectives and working contents of the  company and improve functional operation of the company. The following table lists seven major  committees related to sustainable development management system.   Serial  No.  Name  Responsibilities  1  COSCO Operation  & Management  Committee  Being responsible for comprehensive research and advice on important  issues emerging in business activities; being responsible for review of  the group's working report, supervision and approval of group's annual  financial budget and settlement, and discussion on group's development  planning; shouldering the functionalities of COSCO Group's Risk  Management Committee.  2  Sustainable  Development  Committee on  Comprehensive  Risk Management  Committee  Guiding, promoting and arranging the work regarding construction of  resource-saving enterprise and implementation of the Global Compact;  evaluating and approving the implementation plans for construction of  resource-saving enterprise and implementation of the Global Compact;  Supervising, guiding and coordinating the key projects for construction  of resource-saving enterprise and implementation of the Global  Compact; approving technical service provider, budget plan and training  plans; approving the issuance and application of the sustainable  development reports.  3  Management &  Innovation Team  Being responsible for strategies and planning for management  innovation; being responsible for establishment and perfection of  management innovation processes and construction of management  system; supervising the execution of management innovation policies  and improvement of management systems; organizing argumentation,  evaluation and acceptance for technologies of innovative projects;  approving the conclusion, application, issuance and promotion of  innovation achievements.  4  Leadership Group  and Office for  Execution of the  Implementation  Outlines for  Establishing and  Improving the  Punishment and  Anti-Corruption  System Focusing  on Education,  System and  Supervision  Acting in the requirements of the Implementation Outlines for  Establishing and Improving the Punishment and Anti-Corruption System  Focusing on Education, System and Supervision of the CPC Central  Committee and the Detailed Suggestions on Carrying out the  Implementation Outlines for Establishing and Improving the Punishment  and Anti-Corruption System Focusing on Education, System and  Supervision of the Party Committee of the State-owned Assets  Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council and  making overall deployment and arrangement; organizing, leading and  promoting the work to promote the COSCO Group's Opinions on  Carrying out the Implementation Outlines for Establishing and  Improving the Punishment and Anti-Corruption System Focusing on  Education, System and Supervision, researching and putting forward the  opinions and requirements for promoting the work in line with the  progresses of aforesaid work and ensuring the implementation of the  work.  5  Leadership Group  for Control of  Commercial  Bribery  Implementing and carrying out the guidelines and policies of the CPC  Central Committee and the State-owned Assets Supervision and  Administration Commission of the State Council with regard to  promotion of the special work to control commercial bribery;  researching, deploying, guiding and coordinating the special work to  control commercial bribery; researching and dealing with other  
41 important issues related to the work to control commercial bribery.  6  Safety  Management  Committee  Being responsible for safety management work.  7  Being responsible  for safety  management work.  Actively engaging in the emergence response work regarding to social  stability, security and employees' safety according to the arrangements  of the central government; researching and solving the letters and calls  as well as the massive events of COSCO Group; organizing and guiding  the implementation of social safety and security controlling measures;  uniformly commanding and coordinating the emergence response work  regarding to social stability, security and employees' safety of COSCO  Group's member units home and abroad; perfecting the alarming  mechanism and responding mechanism for substantial emergencies to  ensure the smoothness of direction and information channels; keeping in  touch with the superior authorities to timely report key and important  issues.    3. Decision-making mechanism  To fulfill of its strategic objectives, COSCO Group established meticulous and tight governance structure  according to the requirements of modern enterprise system. COSCO Group headquarters takes the  Presidents' Meeting as the highest decision-making unit and sets up its administrative governance structure  making up of nine divisions and two centers which fulfill their respective functionalities.  Modern Enterprise Management System Operation and Governance Structure of COSCO Group Headquarters                                                        
 42 4. Communication mechanism   COSCO Group has established corresponding communications mechanism for different layers within the  group, and the group headquarters adopt forms such as distribution meeting, system video conference and  other forms to communicate with affiliated enterprises. Within the group, forms such as Presidents work  meeting, special conferences, coordination conferences, work liaison list and OA system are taken for  communications. Besides, horizontal and vertical communication mechanism was established between  management divisions to determine the communications channels, methods and time limits, so as to make  the communications more timely and effective.   In the communication process, COSCO Group has placed special emphases on rights and interests of the  shareholders, managers and employees, and recognizes that employees form an important part of the  enterprise. All units affiliated to COSCO Group had established the system of the workers' congress and  held the workers' congress on a regular basis to listen to and respond to opinions, requirements and  suggestions of employees, participate in administration to develop related proposals, review the related  issues and release the reports on investigation and research of certain issues.   5. Internal statement, behavioral principles and implementation situations relating to  economic, environmental and social performance   With an aim to fulfill the obligation of gradually developing and enhancing its leading position in  international shipping, logistics business, terminal operation and ship-building and ship-repairing industries,  keeping honest and trustworthy relationships with customers, employees and partners, and bringing best  returns to shareholders, the society and the environment, COSCO Group has determined the core concept  of COSCO Groups cultures, namely maximizing the corporate value, economic benefits and returns to  shareholders, compiled the COSCO Group 11th Five-year Plan for Construction of Corporate Cultures  based on the COSCO Group 11th Five-year Development Planning, and determined the guiding  ideologies, basic principles, objectives and targets, and methods for corporate culture construction of  COSCO Group in the next five years such as COSCO Group environmental-protection specification, i.e.  comprehensive management, cherishing the resources, environmental protection and responsible employees.  In the production and operation process, COSCO Group has been dedicated to protecting the environment  and cherishing the earth resources. It has supported and participated in ecological protection activities and  improved ecological environment of enterprises as a social responsibility undertaker. The COSCO Group  Corporate Culture Construction Outline regulates the behavioral standards and criteria of COSCO Group,  such as public relation criteria and principles to respond to public opinions.   The corporate culture construction has integrated with production, operation and management work of the  company. COSCO Group has formulated the economic, environmental, safety and anti-corruption  guidelines and policies. It has also improved its operation and management quality level and brand images.  The corporate culture construction has become a voluntary behavior of all units and employees, formed the  atmosphere of wide participation and inputs, and formed the COSCO Group corporate culture with special  characteristics. COSCO Group has obtained continuous forces for continuous, rapid and healthy  development.   6. Supervision over the management team   The State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission has enhanced the financial  supervision and supervision of the Supervisory Board over the central enterprises. Chairman of the  Supervisory Board carefully performs its supervision functionalities and objectively reports the status of the  enterprise.   Focusing on the enhancement of state-owned investors' administration and supervision functions, COSCO  Group carries out innovation on internal supervision mechanisms to ensure the effective administration and  supervision of state-owned investors. Companies within the territory of China implement the "4-in-1"  supervision mechanism (disciplinary inspection, supervision, audit and the supervisory board).   COSCO Group headquarters has compiled the Procedures for Design and Management of Decision-making  Plans, the Rules of Procedure of the President's Working Conference, the Procedure for Supervision and  Management, and the Procedure for Internal Audit, and carried out administration and supervision  according to the national laws and regulations and the provisions in the Interim Rules for Management of  
 43 Top Executives of COSCO Group headquarters.   The democratic evaluations on work of top management team are organized regularly to collect opinions  from all staff of the management team. The management team puts forward improvement measures and  reports improvement results with regard to opinions put forward. In the meantime, company affair  transparency system is adopted to supervise the management team.   COSCO Group has also compiled the Regulations on Economic Responsibility Audit Work for Top  Executives of COSCO Group's Wholly-owned and Holding Companies during Their Tenures, to audit the  economic responsibilities of major top executives in their tenures, so as to improve the operational  performance based on the auditing opinions and fulfill the internal supervision.  7. Performance evaluation mechanism   The Approach on the Performance Evaluation of the Persons Responsible for Central Enterprises, as an  important regulation for supervision and control of state-owned assets in China puts forward evaluation  indicators, i.e. annual indicator and tenure indicator, for persons responsible for central enterprises. The  annual indicator includes total annual profits and rate of returns on net assets. The tenure indicator includes  the rate of maintenance and appreciation of state-owned assets and average growth rate of main business  revenues in three years. If the responsible person fulfills the operational objectives, he or she will receive  an annual bonus and long-term incentives during the tenure. If fails to fulfill the operational objectives, he  or she will face reduced or deferred salaries or may not continue his or her post or renew the contract. The  persons evaluated by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission include the  chairman, vice chairman, general manager, deputy general manager, chief accountant and secretary of the  discipline inspection commission of the central enterprises.  COSCO Group strictly implements the Approach on the Performance Evaluation of the Persons  Responsible for Central Enterprises. By establishing and perfecting the top management performance  evaluation system, and requesting the responsible persons of the COSCO Group headquarters and its  second-tier companies to sign the letter of liabilities for operational performance, and removing the  evaluation objectives layer by layer, it formed the mechanism of liability settlement and pressure  conduction as well as the incentive mechanism of relating operational performance with income allocation.  Based on the Document to Ask for Instructions Regarding the Payment of 2008 Annual Bonus of Persons  Responsible to Directly Affiliated Companies of COSCO Group reviewed and approved at the first  president's working conference of COSCO Group headquarters in 2009, the Notice on Payment of 2008  Annual Bonus of Responsible Persons of Directly Affiliated Companies of COSCO Group within the  territory of China, COSCO Hong Kong and COSCO Qingdao Seaman College and completed related work.  The move enhanced the consciousness of profit and capital returns of companies affiliated to the Group,  stimulated the enthusiasm of responsible persons and employees, provided mechanism guarantees for the  group to deepen reform, strengthen management and fulfill comprehensive and coordinated sustainable  development, and therefore realized safe and healthy operation as well as maintenance and appreciation of  state-owned assets.  8. Personnel evaluation mechanism   In 2008, COSCO Group completed the adjustment of leading bodies in directly affiliated units, appointing  and removing a total of 29 people in 15 companies, including COSCO Europe, China COSCO, COSCO  Boao, COSCO Hong Kong Shipping, COSCO Hong Kong Group, COSCO Bulk, COSCO Guangzhou,  COSCO Xiamen, COSCO Shipbuilding, COSCO Finance, COSCO Tally, COSCO Americas, COSCO  Singapore and COSCO Container Lines (14 people were appointed to administrative positions, and 10  removed from office; 15 people were appointed by Party committees, and 10 removed from office), and  recommending a total of 5 people for positions in 2 companies, COSCO Bulk Operation Headquarters and  COSCO Shipping.   9. Participation in associations   COSCO Group actively participates in industrial associations and organizations to promote the sustainable  development of shipping industry.  As China's largest shipping carrier and one of the leading carriers in world's shipping industry, COSCO  Group has performed its social responsibilities actively, joined many influential shipping organizations  
 44 home and abroad and participated in various activities organized by these organizations, making itself a  driver of global shipping industry and contributing to the maintenance and promotion of health and  sustainable development of international shipping industry.   Non-profitable and non-governmental organizations participated  Organization  Position  Function  UN Global Compact  Member  Promote sustainable development  World Business Council for  Sustainable Development  Member  Promote sustainable development  China Business Council for  Sustainable Development  Vice President  company  Promote sustainable development  Council of China Quality  Association  Committee member Improve quality  Quality Management  Association under the Ministry  of Communications  Vice President  Improve quality  China Maritime Law  Association  Vice President  Promote development of maritime law  Chinese Trademark  Association  Member  Promote intellectual property right  protection  China Association of National  Advertisers  Member  Promote intellectual property right  protection and maintain advertising honesty Environmental Protection Web  of the Ministry of  Communications  Member  Promote environmental protection in  transportation industry  China Internal Audit  Association  Member  Promote anti-corruption work  China Supervision Association  Member  Promote anti-corruption work  China Research Institute of  Communications Education  Member  Promote education and training of  transportation industry  China Navigation Education  Research Institute  Vice President  Play a key role in promoting development  of navigation education standardization  China Ocean Ship  Standardization Committee  Member  Standardization  Association of Traffic and  Environmental Protection  Information  Member  Protect environment and improve traffic and  environmental protection level  Traffic and Environmental  Protection Association  Member  Promote traffic and environmental  protection  Traffic and Energy  Management Association  Member  Promote saving of traffic resources and  environmental protection  Business for Social  Responsibility  Member   (COSCO Container  Lines)  Work with other enterprises to build a more  equal, sustainable global economic  environment  Business Environment Council  of Hong Kong  Committee Member  (COSCO Pacific)  Signed the Clean Air Charter organized by  Business Environment Alliance of the Pearl  River Delta region  COSCO Group joins legitimate non-governmental groups and non-profitable organizations to actively  participate in activities related to social responsibility and sustainable development.   In 2008, COSCO Group mainly participated in 66 organizations and groups, of which, the most important  ones are listed as follows:       
 45 Name of industrial  association  Position and function  Valuable activities  BOX CLUB  Association of worlds  container shipping industry  Promote healthy development of  worlds container shipping industry World Shipping Council  Association of ocean shipping  companies in the US  Take part in ocean shipping  business in the US actively  BIMCO      Asian Ship-owners Forum  Organization of Asian  ship-owners  Promote cooperation of  ship-owners in Asia  European Liner Affairs  Association  Association of European  container shipping industry  Promote healthy development of  container shipping industry in  Europe  China Federation of Logistics  and Purchasing  Association of Chinese  logistics industry  Promote cooperation between  logistics industry and industrial and  commercial industry  China Ship-owners  Association  Association of Chinese  ship-owners (COSCO Group  is the chairman company)  Promote mutual cooperation and  development of Chinese  ship-owners  China International Freight  Forwarders Association  Association of Chinese freight  forwarding industry  Promote healthy development of  Chinese freight forwarding industry Cross Straits Shipping  Exchange Association  Association for shipping  industry on both sides of the  Taiwan Strait  Promote healthy development of  ocean shipping industries on both  sides of Taiwan Strait  Special Committee for  Dangerous Goods  Transportation  Special organization for  transportation of dangerous  goods  Promote sustainable development  of dangerous goods in  transportation industry  China Logistics Association  Research institute of Chinese  logistics industry  Promote healthy development of  Chinese logistics industry  China Communications and  Transportation Association  Association of transportation  industry organized by the  Ministry of Communications  Promote healthy development of  Chinese communications and  transportation industry  China Institute of Navigation  Leading academic  organization in Chinese  navigation industry (COSCO  Group is one of the founders)  Promote academic discussion and  key research of navigation industry China Association of the  National Shipbuilding Industry  National organization for the  shipping industry  Promote growth and development  of Chinese shipping industry  China Ports Association  Standing director company                              
 46 Part II Major policies and ,anagement systems  COSCO Group upholds the principles of continuous tracking of the worlds most advanced management  approaches and standards and continuous pursuit of excellence, formulates long-term strategies for  innovative management methodology of corporate management, creatively integrates standardization,  management system, TQM, benchmarking, risk assessment, six sigma, excellent performance mode, and  lean management, and improves the management systems of quality, environment, occupational safety,  information safety and risk management to the systems of overall risk management and sustainable  development management, hencing establishes a long-term mechanism for the Groups sustainable  development. (See the chart below)                     COSCO Group Sustainable Development Report 2008 has been improved with the Six Sigma methods.  COSCO Groups development strategies are decomposed by strategy map to ensure the realization of  COSCO Groups medium and long-term development strategies.   Strategy map is the most effective tool for transforming corporate development strategy into actual practice,  and an innovation of corporate management system in the new era. The strategy map centers on four  perspectives of the balanced scorecard, namely, financial perspective, customer perspective, internal  perspective, learning and growth perspective. It is a corporate strategy causal relationship map drawn by  analyzing the interaction of the four perspectives. Core contents of the strategy map include: by the  allocation of intangible assets, including human, information and organizational capital (learning and  growth), enterprises innovate and establish strategic advantages and efficiency (internal flow), then bring  specific values of the companies to the markets (customer) in order to realize the values of shareholders  (financial).   1. Overview of management system  COSCO Group has long been committed to the innovation of management system. Led by the Group  Headquarters implementation of the Global Compact and the 16 steps of sustainable development  management system, the companies made quality management innovation the base point, and introduced  ISO14000 Environmental Management System and OHSAS18000 Occupational Safety and Health  Management System on the basis of quality management system and in accordance with COSCO Groups  strategies and corporate development needs. The latest management concepts, management practices and  management tools were introduced to build the main frame of the management system and COSCO  Groups sustainable development management system platform.     COSCO Group, the creative design of the succession management system model for sustainable  development management system, the establishment of the Global Compact and the implementation of the  long-term mechanism of social responsibility to the quality of environmental and occupational safety  
 47 system based on integration to sustainable development and risk management of the main line, the use of  Lean Six Sigma approach, indicators of sustainable development of COSCO Group system one of the  indicators related to production and management into the decision-making process and actions, the  formation of indicators of sustainable development management system, strengthen management processes  and procedures to standardize the acts of corporate social responsibility, system management model shows  the system in the management of the COSCO Group's leading position Methods.  COSCO Group creatively carried on the management system mode, designed the sustainable development  management system, and built a long-term mechanism for the implementation of Global Compact and  social responsibility. Based on the integrated system of quality environment and occupational safety,  focusing on sustainable development and risk management, COSCO Group adopted the method of Lean  Six Sigma and incorporated the index in COSCO Group Sustainable Development Index System into  relevant production, operation, management and decision-making processes, formed a index-based  sustainable development management system, and enhanced control over flow and processes to regularize  corporate social responsibility practices. The systems management mode fully demonstrated COSCO  Groups leading position in the application of management system methods.   Chart for COSCO Groups effort to implement the Global Compact and establish sustainable  development management system                                                         2. Overview of COSCO Group management system   Since 1998, COSCO (Group) Headquarters began to adopt the quality management system in  decision-making and management. After a decade of development, COSCO (Group) Headquarters has  
 48 established a sustainable development management system featuring risk management as the mainline (See  the Structure of COSCO Group Sustainable Development Management System and Procedures).   Activities and  procedures  Main procedures  of decision-making  system  Supporting procedures  Key operational  documents  Core  decision-making  activities  decision-making  plan design and  control procedures;  legal risks  management  procedures  Decision-making procedures  of the Presidents working  meeting; decision-making  procedures of party group  meeting; post-evaluation  procedures, contract  management procedures.  Rules for resolution of  Presidents working  meeting; rules for  resolution of party  group meeting;  contract management  methods  Strateg ic  manag ement  Human resource  development and  management  procedures  Operational performance  evaluation and management  procedures  Operational  performance inspection  management methods  (pre-leave)  Key human resource  management  Human resource  development and  management  procedures  Wage and salary management  procedures; labor insurance  management procedures;  training management  procedures; institution  organization and committee  management procedures;  procedures of selection of  board of directors and  supervisors  Management methods  for dispatch and  selection of directors  and supervisors  (temporary)  Financial and  capital  management  Financial  management  procedures  Economic activities analytical  procedures; comprehensive  statistics and management  procedures; statistical  procedures of technology  innovation and scientific  activities  Financial management  methods  Investmen t and  financing  manageme nt  Investment  management  procedures  Vessel buying and selling  management procedures;  retirement management  procedures; financial risk  management procedures  (pre-leave)  Investment  management methods Main control system  Decision making activities in functional orientation  Assets and  capital  manageme nt  Assets management  procedures; capital  operation  procedures  Directors business  management procedures;  procedures for enforcement  of shareholders rights  (temporary, pr-leave)  Directors management  methods; temporary  management methods  for enforcement of  shareholders rights  (pre-leave)  
 49 Supervision and overall coordination  Transportation  management  procedures;  company  management  procedures; safety &  risk management  procedures;  procedures to  enhance and  improve party  construction work;  democratize and  transparent  company affairs  management  procedures  External affairs management  procedures; administrative  management procedures;  relationship management  procedures; emergency  preparation, response and  disposal procedures; science  and technology management  procedures; informatization  management procedures;  corporate culture construction  and promotion procedures;  internal audit procedures;  working procedures for party  groups; working procedures  for directly affiliated party  committees; working  procedures for league  committee of the group;  working procedures for the  workers union  Safety & risk  emergency response  plan; stable risk  (public security risk)  emergency response  plan  Docu ment  Document  processing and  control procedures    Document processing  management methods Meetin g  Meeting  organization  procedures      Pubic  affairs  Public affairs  management  procedures      Decision support system  Basic activities  Excha nge  and  disclos ure  Information  exchange and  disclosure  procedures  Sustainable development  reporting procedures  Guidelines on  sustainable  development report    Human  resources  Human resource  development and  management  procedures        Resources  Equipm ent  Administrative  management  procedures  Computer hardware and  network management  procedures; organs  communications management  procedures          
 50 Capita ls  Financial  management  procedures      Informa tion  Information  safety & risk  management  procedures  Information, research  achievements and  information integrating  and sharing procedures  Guidelines on  sustainable  development  report  Decision support system  Resources  Relations hips  Related party  relationship  management  procedures  Social responsibility and  harmonious society  construction procedures   esou ces te a supervision and  Internal operation  and control  Annual plan  and task  distribution and  control  procedures;  headquarters  working style  construction  procedures    Guidelines on  development and  application of  sustainable  development  information  management  platform  Internal control system  System guarantee  System  operati on and  control  Management  system &  process control  procedures;  internal control  system and  regulation  revision  procedures  Risk evaluation  procedures and related  party risk management  procedures  Guidelines on  establishment of  sustainable  development  management  system;  guidelines on  report of  sustainable  development  indicator system 3. Management system construction of companies  The affiliated companies of COSCO Group actively establish management system in accordance with the  deployment of Group headquarters, and apply the approaches of the management system for continuous  improvement and pursuit of excellence. In 2008, the companies completed the establishment and  certification of quality, environment and occupational health and safety system according to the  requirements of the management appraisal institutes, and integrated risk management and the requirements  of the Global Compact into their operation systems.                         
 51 4. Certifications obtained  NO.  Company  name  Certificates obtained  1  COSCO  Group  headquarters Quality management system certificate issued by DNV and CSS Quality  Assurance Company according to ISO9000:2000 quality management  system standards;   Environment Management system certificate issued by DNV and CSS  Quality Assurance Company according to ISO14000:2004 environment  management system standards;   Occupational health and safety management system certificate issued by  DNV and CSS Quality Assurance Company according to   OHSAS18001:2007 occupational health and safety management system  standards  2  COSCO  Container  Lines  Quality management system certificate issued by CSS Quality Assurance  Company according to ISO9000:2000 quality management system  standards;  Environment management system certificate issued by CSS Quality  Assurance  Company  according  to  ISO14001:2004  environment  management system standards;  Occupational health and safety management system certificate issued by  CSS Quality Assurance Company according to OHSAS18001:1999  occupational health and safety management system standards   3  COSCO  Bulk Carrier  Quality management system certificate issued by CSS Quality Assurance  Company according to ISO9001:2000 quality management system  standards;  Environment management system certificate issued by CSS Quality  Assurance  Company  according  to  ISO14001:2004  environment  management system;   Qualification certificate issued by CSS according to ISM rules under the  authorization of the Maritime Safety Administration of the Peoples  Republic of China and Flag State Government  4  COSCO  Shipping  Quality management system certificate issued by CSS Quality Assurance  Company according to ISO9001:2000 quality management system  standards; and environment management system certificate issued according  to ISO14001:2004 environment management standards; and occupational  health and safety management system certificate issued according to  OHSAS18001:1999 occupational health and safety management system  standards.   Quality certificate issued by CSS according to ISM rules under the  authorization of the Maritime Safety Administration of the Peoples  Republic of China and Panama, Malta, and China Hong Kong Flag State  Government   5  COSCO  Qingdao  Quality management system certificate issued by CSS Quality Assurance  Company according to ISO9001:2000 quality management system  standards;   Qualification certificate issued by CSS according to ISM/NSM rules under  the authorization of the Maritime Safety Administration of the Peoples  Republic of China and Flag State Government  6  COSCO  Dalian  Quality management system certificate issued by CSS Quality Assurance  Company according to ISO9001:2000 quality management system  standards;  Environment management system certificate issued by CSS Quality  Assurance Company according to ISO14001:2004 environment  management system standards;   Occupational health and safety management system certificate issued by  
 52 NO.  Company  name  Certificates obtained  CSS Quality Assurance Company according to OHSAS 18001:1999  occupational health and safety management system standards;  Qualification certificate issued by CSS according to ISM rules under the  authorization of the Maritime Safety Administration of the Peoples  Republic of China and Flag State Government.   7  COSCO  Xiamen  Quality management system certificate issued by CSS Quality Assurance  Company according to ISO9001:2000 quality management system  standards;  Environment management system certificate issued by CSS Quality  Assurance Company according to ISO14001:2004 environment  management system standards;   Occupational health and safety management system certificate issued by  CSS Quality Assurance Company according to OHSAS 18001:1999  occupational health and safety management system standards;  Qualification certificate issued by CSS according to ISM rules under the  authorization of the Maritime Safety Administration of the Peoples  Republic of China and Flag State Government.  8  COSCO  Hong Kong  Shipping   Quality management system certificate issued by CSS Quality Assurance  Company according to ISO9001:2000 quality management system  standards;  Environment management system certificate issued by CSS Quality  Assurance Company according to ISO14001:2004 environment  management system standards;   Occupational health and safety management system certificate issued by  CSS Quality Assurance Company according to OHSAS 18001:1999  occupational health and safety management system standards;  Qualification certificate issued by CSS according to ISM/NSM rules under  the authorization of the Maritime Safety Administration of the Peoples  Republic of China and Flag State Government.  9  COSCO  Logistics  Quality management system certificate issued by British Standards Institute  according to ISO9001:2000 quality management system standards;  Environment management system certificate issued by British Standards  Institute according to ISO14000:2004 environment management system  standards;  Occupational health and safety management system certificate issued by  British Standards Institute according to OHSAS18001:1999 occupational  health and safety management system standards  10  COSCO  Shipyard  Quality management system certificate issued by CSS Quality Assurance  Company according to ISO9001:2000 quality management system  standards;  Environment management system certificate issued by CSS Quality  Assurance Company according to ISO14001:2004 environment  management system standards;   Occupational health and safety management system certificate issued by  CSS Quality Assurance Company according to OHSAS 18001:1999  occupational health and safety management system standards;  11  COSCO  Shipbuilding Quality management system certificate issued by DNV according to  ISO9001:2000 quality management system standards;  Environment management system certificate issued by DNV according to  ISO14001:2004 environment management system standards;  Occupational health and safety management system issued by DNV  according to OHSAS18001:2007 occupational health and safety  management system standards  
 53 NO.  Company  name  Certificates obtained      12  China  Marine  Bunker  (Petro  China) Co.  Ltd  Quality management system certificate issued by CSS Quality Assurance  Company according to ISO9001:2000 quality management system  standards;  Environment management system certificate issued by CSS Quality  Assurance Company according to ISO14001:2004 environment  management system standards;   Occupational health and safety management system certificate issued by  CSS Quality Assurance Company according to OHSAS 18001:1999  occupational health and safety management system standards  13  COSCO  Hainan Boao Quality management system certificate issued by CSS Quality Assurance  Company according to ISO9001:2000 quality management system  standards;  Environment management system certificate issued by CSS Quality  Assurance Company according to ISO14001:2004 environment  management system standards;   Occupational health and safety management system certificate issued by  CSS Quality Assurance Company according to OHSAS 18001:2007  occupational health and safety management system standards;  14  COSCO  Ocean  Shipping  Tally  Company   Quality management system certificate issued by CSS Quality Assurance  Company according to ISO9001:2000 quality management system  standards;  Environment management system certificate issued by CSS Quality  Assurance Company according to ISO14001:2004 environment  management system standards;   Occupational health and safety management system certificate issued by  CSS Quality Assurance Company according to OHSAS 18001:2007  occupational health and safety management system standards;  15  COSCO  Human  Resources  CO.  Ltd/COSCO  Manning  Cooperation  Inc.  Quality management system certificate issued by CSS Quality Assurance  Company according to ISO9001:2000 quality management system  standards;  Environment management system certificate issued by CSS Quality  Assurance Company according to ISO14001:2004 environment  management system standards;   Occupational health and safety management system certificate issued by  CSS Quality Assurance Company according to OHSAS 18001:2007  occupational health and safety management system standards;  16  COSCO UK Quality management system certificate issued by British Standards Institute  according to ISO9001:2000 quality management system standards;   Qualification certificate issued by DNV according to ISM rules under the  authorization of Flag State Government                
 54 Part III Global Compact, overall risk management and sustainable  development  I. Global Compact and social responsibility  (I) Understanding of Global Compact and social responsibility  COSCO Group fulfills social responsibilities with cosmopolitan thinking and global vision, and shoulders  the global social responsibilities of a world-class transnational corporation.   In an era of economic globalization, the competition focuses of transnational companies have changed  from hardware to software, from competition on technologies and products to competition on the  companies understanding of social responsibility and social ethnics. Advanced concepts and practices  of social responsibility form an indispensible part of an enterprises core competiveness to win in the  competition.   The evaluation standards for an enterprises sustainable development ability have changed, as the ten  principles of the Global Compact have prompted new standards for the evaluation of modern  enterprises sustainable development ability. An enterprises ability to shoulder social responsibility and  to gain intangible assets has become the key to its development.   The Global Compact and social responsibility have not only changed the global ideologies and value  systems, but also brought new corporate management concepts. By fulfilling social responsibilities,  initiating best business practice in corporate management innovation, reforming business modes,  preventing and controlling risks, enterprises can improve their efficiency and profitability. COSCO  Group has stuck to the scientific outlook on development advocated by the Government, adhered to the  four major principles for development, namely, people-oriented, comprehensive, coordinated and  sustainable, reviewed the development of the enterprise, and guided management innovation with the  scientific outlook, constructed a resource-saving and harmonious company, and realized the sustainable  development of COSCO Group.   As the first and most important state-owned enterprise of China, COSCO Group practices the Guidelines  for Central Enterprises to Fulfill Social Responsibility from the State-owned Assets Supervision and  Administration Commission of the State Council, conforms to related parties requirements regarding  social responsibilities, and endeavors to set an example for other companies.   It shoulders the political responsibility to construct a harmonious society;  the legal responsibility to comply with all the laws, rules and regulations;  the economic responsibility to secure and increase the value of state-owned assets;  the productive responsibility to provide the society with products and services;  amjnd the due social responsibilities of a global corporate citizen.  Guided by the spirits of Upholding the Concept of Scientific Outlook on Development and Sticking to  Comprehensive, Balanced and Sustainable Development conveyed at the 17th CPC National Congress,  COSCO Group implements the Global Compact and social responsibilities in a comprehensive manner and  promotes them throughout the entire system.   Performing Global Compact and social responsibilities are in total accordance with the requirements of  the Chinese Government and Chinese society;  Performing social responsibilities conforms to the Central Governments requirements for carrying out  the scientific outlook on development and transforming economic growth methods;  Performing the principles of the Global Compact on human rights and labor also complies with the  Central Governments human-oriented guideline and the requirements of building up the socialist and  harmonious society put forward at the 17th CPC National Congress;  Performing the anti-corruption principles of the Global Compact is in accordance with the Central  Governments requirements for comprehensive reinforcement of leadership in the new circumstances.        
 55 (II) COSCO Groups promotion of Global Compact and implementation of sustainable development  COSCO Group has made a five-year overall arrangement to fully implement the Global Compact, fulfill  social responsibilities and realize sustainable development. Based on the sustainable development risk  levels of its institutes, COSCO Group compiled a three-year plan for the implementation schedule. From  2005 to 2007, it completed the expansion from the pilot units of COSCO Group headquarters and COSCO  Container Lines to the pilot units of COSCO Shipping, COSCO Logistics, COSCO Shipbuilding and  COSCO UK, enlarging the coverage of 30 percent of main businesses to all second-tier companies,  shipping companies, logistics companies and shipbuilding and repairing companies. From 2008, COSCO  Group will implement the sustainable development strategies in all its second-tier, shipping, logistics, port  and shipbuilding and repairing companies within three years.  Pilot projects at COSCO Group headquarters and COSCO Container Lines in 2005  Based its successful experience, COSCO Group expanded the scope for implementation of the Global  Compact and sustainable development report to 15 companies, including logistics, shipping and  ship-repairing. Meanwhile, COSCO UK was selected as a pilot unit among COSCO Groups overseas  companies.  In 2007, COSCO Group had implemented the sustainable development management system and  expanded the scope of implementation of the Global Compact and sustainable development report to 20  second-tier, shipping, logistics and ship-repairing companies.  In 2008, the scope of implementation of the Global Compact and sustainable development report was  expanded from second-tier, shipping, logistics and shipbuilding and repairing companies to third-tier  companies.  In 2009, the scope of implementation will be expanded to overseas companies.  In 2010, all second-tier, shipping, logistics, port and shipbuilding and repairing companies will  implement the sustainable development strategies.  COSCO Group established the sustainable development and social responsibility management system, and  the long-term mechanism to promote social responsibility. COSCO Group gradually completed the  construction of social responsibility and sustainable development management systems, including  sustainable development organization and management system, internal control system and sustainable  development file system, sustainable development objective assessment and monitoring system, and  sustainable development information management IT platform system, realized the regularization of  continuous acts of corporate social responsibility, balanced the expectations of stakeholders and scientific  resource allocation, increased stakeholders confidence in the future of the enterprise and improved the  reliability of the sustainable development report.   (III) Implementation of Global Compact and sustainable development of COSCO Group in 2008  Social responsibilities shall not be a commercial stance only, but a means to construct and promote  honorable cultures of enterprises. An excellent corporate citizen shall integrate the high attentions on the  society and the environment into its daily operation. To fulfill the aforesaid goals, COSCO Group has  established the sustainable development and social responsibility management system and a long-term  mechanism.   The establishment of a long-term mechanism for performance of the Global Compact and social  responsibilities and the standardization of enterprises social responsibilities call for the supports of  strong decision-making impetus, scientific management and quality services, along with in-depth  understanding of social responsibilities, correct application of tools and evaluation technologies and  methods, rational resource allocation and effective risk controls. These allow enterprises to combine the  requirements of corporate social responsibility with their strategies and operation, promote strategic  transformation, operation mode conversion and business flow restructuring with sustainable development  concepts, trigger stage changes of enterprises and fulfill development and harmony of corporate  values, environment and natural resources.   According to the No. 1 Decree of SASAC of the State Council [2008], Guiding Opinions on Further  Promotion of Social Responsibility Among Central Enterprises, COSCO Group 2008 Annual Routine  Management Assessment Report, and the spirits of COSCO Group Work Conference in 2008, combining  the principles and requirements for COSCO Group to practice the Global Compact as a member of the  
 56 Global Compact, COSCO Group formulated the Global Compact and Sustainable Development 2008  Annual Implementation Plan. COSCO Group and all second-tier companies realized the integration of the  implementation of ten principles and strategies of the Global Compact with daily operations, and built the  sustainable development management system in accordance with the 16 steps creatively put forward by  COSCO Group to organize, promote and implement the Global Compact and sustainable development  management. The management of management system is the management of business flow. Every process  and regulation is set for the control of a particular risk, and any improvement related to the management  system is reworking on the existing flow. Principles for improvement should be determined beforehand,  risk assessment carried out, and the impact on overall situation, the permit of resources considered in a  systematic manner.   1. Construction of sustainable development management system  To ensure the implementation of the Global Compact and sustainable development in a systematic and  uniform manner, COSCO Group restructured its business flow in accordance with the Guiding Opinions on  Further Promotion of Social Responsibility Among Central Enterprises, the No. 1 Decree of the SASAC of  the State Council in 2008, the Guidelines for Implementation of UN Global Compact, the Guidelines for  Global Compact Corporate Social Responsibility Management System, the GRI Guidelines for Sustainable  Development and the Guidelines for Central Enterprises Comprehensive Risk Management. COSCO  Group incorporated the articles regarding comprehensive risk management and Global Compact into its  management decision-making and business processes, established the Social Responsibility and  Harmonious Enterprise Management Procedures, the Sustainable Development Reporting Procedures and  the risk management procedures of key processes, and carried out the requirements of Global Compact  social responsibility and risk management obligations, indicator management and risk authorization in  practices of all COSCO people through working standards. COSCO Group also established the Global  Compact social responsibility management system and Sustainable Development report management  system by applying the ISO9000 quality system framework, developed and established the sustainable  development information management platform. Subsidiaries of COSCO Group also established the  sustainable development management systems and customized the sustainable development information  management platform systems.   To this end, COSCO Group designed the management system, information management platform and  reporting framework in accordance with the requirements of GRI, that is, the Global Reporting Initiative,  compiled and issued guidelines regarding the establishment of Global Compact and sustainable  development to standardize the performance of the entire Group and ensure the uniformity in the  performance of social responsibilities.   Guidelines for COSCO Group Sustainable Development Management System and Its Construction   Guidelines for COSCO Group Sustainable Development Indicator System and Its Reporting  Guidelines for COSCO Group Sustainable Development Report and Its Compiling   Guidelines for COSCO Group Sustainable Development Confidence Management Platform and Its  Application  Guidelines for COSCO Group Sustainable Development Internal Auditing and Assessment     2. Construction of sustainable development indicator system  COSCO Group established the sustainable development indicator system and improved the system after  annual reviews. After three years improvement, the original 250 indicators were refined and improved to  670 indicators which reflect the key interests of stakeholders in a more comprehensive manner.                   
 57                                   3. Serial trainings on sustainable development  Since there were more than 20 COSCO companies implementing the Global Compact in 2008, COSCO  Group adopted the method of batch construction to save time and cost. The trainings were organized by  COSCO Group headquarters, divided into stages (one round a year), carried out separately, directed with  emphasis, assessed uniformly and compiled and reported concentratedly.   No.  Stage of training  Content  Objectives  Task  1  Training on indicator collection and  improvement  Indicator  system  Implementation  of first stage  Collect indicators 2  Training on material collection and  improvement  Material  Compilation  Implementation  of second stage  Collect materials 3  Training on information management  platform  Report  system  Implementation  of third stage  Installation  and  improvement of  system  4  Training on report framework and  compilation  Report  framework  Implementation  of fourth stage  Report  compilation  5  Training on first draft of report and  improvement  First draft of  report  Implementation  of fifth stage  Amendment  by  compiling team  6  Training on report improvement  Discussion of  each section  Implementation  of sixth stage  Opinion  collection  and  improvement  7  Training of internal auditors  System  assessment  Implementation  of seventh stage  Internal audit  8  Training on management assessment  Management  assessment  Implementation  of eighth stage  Management  assessment  9  Training  on  management  system  improvement  Management  system  Implementation  of ninth stage  System  improvement  10  Training of all employees  Increase  awareness  Requirements for  implementation  Plan for the next  year  In 2008, COSCO Group organized nine training courses on Global Compact and sustainable development  work in stages, including indicator compilation, material preparation, internal audit, etc. Staff members  participating in the trainings discussed and interpreted the requirements of the Global Compact and  sustainable development work according to the uniform requirements of GRI standards and the Group,  combining with the actual situation of their companies. After the trainings, some participants volunteered to  disseminate the knowledge about the significance and basic requirements of the Global Compact and  sustainable development through the companies intranet and electronic publications, etc. The competent  authorities for Global Compact and sustainable development in COSCO Group joint hands with DNV  
 58 experts to carry out auditing and training of second-tier companies. In 2008, a total of nine training courses  on Global Compact were organized, training 248 staff members at all levels.  4. Assessment of sustainable development report  COSCO Group makes its sustainable development report a bridge for the communication between COSCO  Group and various stakeholders. It is an answer sheet COSCO Group turns in to the stakeholders in the  society. Press release for the report, communication conference for stakeholders and news conference are  held every year to release to the world COSCO Groups social responsibility performance report and  submit it to social supervision. It is hoped that various stakeholders will learn more about COSCO Group  through the press release for report and the communication conference, so that they will offer suggestions  for COSCO Groups further development.   COSCO Group believes that the sustainable development report is a true reflection of the enterprises  performance of the Global Compact and social responsibility during the process of production, operation,  management and decision-making, and is the result of the operation of sustainable development  management system and the reflection of actual performance. Enterprises, therefore, should prudently  release the report with a sense of responsibility for the society. The quality of the report determines the  reliability of the report, and is the key to the success of the report. Therefore the improvement of report  reliability is the eternal theme of improvement and innovation. To this end COSCO Group creatively  proposed 16 steps in the establishment and operation of sustainable development management system, and  established strict social responsibility report compilation flow and communication mechanism. Altogether  18 assessment and improvement steps are adopted to complete the process of report quality control.  No.  Assessment period  Content  Working time in 2008  1  Sustainable development indicator  assessment  Indicator  system  From March 3 to 4, 2008  2  Material collection and  improvement assessment  Material  compilation  From April 8 to 9, 2008  3  Information management platform  assessment  Report system From April 8 to 9, 2008  4  Report framework and compilation  assessment  Report  framework  From April 8 to 9, 2008  5  First draft of report and  improvement assessment  First draft of  report  From May 28 to 30, 2008  6  Report improvement assessment  Discussion of  each section  From June 17 to 18, 2008  7  Internal auditors assessment  System  assessment  From June 17 to 20, 2008  8  Assessment of management  assessment  Management  assessment  July 28, 2008  9  Management system improvement  assessment  Management  system  From February 28 to 21, 2008  10  Experts appraisal meeting  Confirmation  of the report  July 24, 2008  5. On-site evaluation and internal auditing  On-site evaluation and guidance shall be conducted based on progresses and needs of all companies.   
 59     In 2008, COSCO Group headquarters deployed and organized uniform assessment and evaluation of eight  second-tier companies. Also, eight second-tier companies received third-party assessment of DNV, which  ensured the consistency of system operation specifications.   Name of  assessed  company  Assessment  time  Assessment description  COSCO  Hong Kong  2008.01.16-18  The company features good basis for management, and has  established ISO9001, ISO14001 and ISM management systems. In  2001, the company won Hong Kong Quality Management Award,  carried out risk assessment, compiled risk management procedures,  amended the management system, optimized working flow and  incorporated some of the requirements of sustainable development  management system.  COSCO  Xiamen  2008.03.12-14  Senior leadership of the company has deep understanding of  corporate social responsibility and sustainable development, and  plays a leading role. The company has very good practice in terms of  human rights, labors, environment, community and anti-corruption.  In risk management, the company has gone one step further to form  a primary risk library, and to conduct risk assessment scientifically  with the six sigma technology. The establishment of comprehensive  management system has laid a good foundation for the establishment  of sustainable development management system.  COSCO  Dalian  2008.03.25-27  The company features systematic basic management, strong  inter-departmental cooperation. The collection of data is practical,  careful and rational. It also has very good practice in terms of human  rights, labors, environment, community and anti-corruption. The  company has adopted the concept and method of risk management to  satisfy customers needs regarding social responsibility, which laid a  solid foundation for the establishment of sustainable management  Add Your Title  Add Your Title  Add You Title  Day1: report evalulation  and audit  Day2: management  system evaluation   Day3: management  system imporvement  training    IT system evaluation  Evaluation and audit  of sustainable  development report  Report  index  data  audit  Issuance  of audit  report  Evaluation of  management syste,  Manageme nt system  setup and  operation  evaluation On-site  traning  IT  system  evaluati on  Platform  formualt ion plan  Internal evaluation and  audit team  External evaluaiton  and audit team 
 60 system.  COSCO  Bulk  2008.05.21-23  The company has very strong implementation capacity. It has  completed the integration of IT system, and developed the standard  management system, laying a solid foundation for the establishment  of sustainable management system. The collection of data regarding  finance and fuel was practical, careful and rational, and the practice  regarding human rights, labors, anti-corruption, risk management  and risk operation was excellent. All these have laid a solid  foundation for the implementation of overall risk management.  COSCO  Container  Lines  2008.05.26-28  Since 2005, the company began to compile and release sustainable  development report independently, and to receive third-party  assessment from DNV. The report in 2008 gained the approval of  DNV in terms of timeliness, accuracy, neutrality, responsiveness,  comparability and completeness, etc. DNV believed that the  performance information and data in COSCO Bulks sustainable  development report are accurate and objective.  COSCO  Vessel Fuel  2008.06.24-26  The company has laid a good management foundation and data  supporting platform for the sustainable development report in terms  of system construction, management innovation and indicator  management, etc. It implemented risk management with the methods  of HSE harm identification and risk management, formed a central  fuel system harm identification and risk assessment table, which laid  foundation for the implementation of overall risk management. The  company also has very good practice in terms of human right, labors,  environment, community and anti-corruption.  COSCO  Qingdao  2008.11.11-13  The company has a strong receptivity for new concepts, along with  excellent  corporate  culture,  harmonious,  relaxed  working  environment and corporate atmosphere. The systematic, mature  working mechanism of the two party political systems lay good  foundation for the performance of Global Compact and overall risk  management. The company also has very good practice in terms of  risk of policy making, chartered vessel risk management, human  resource risk, human rights, labors, environment and anti-corruption,  etc.  COSCO  Logistics  2008.11.19-21  The company has excellent corporate culture, and has made  contribution in environmental protection, resource saving, climate  change, labor protection, human rights and community through  technological innovation and managerial innovation. Also, the  company has added the KRI indicator to its performance assessment,  demonstrated ample concerns and given enough incentives for the  growth of employees.  6. Audit of management system and sustainable development report  The reliability and quality guarantee mechanism for COSCO Groups report adopts the worlds most  advanced controlling standards and methods. COSCO Group checks the reliability of the report according  to AA1000 and DNVs sustainable development report auditing criteria, rates the sustainable development  management system and determines the supporting degrees of the process to the reliability of the report. It  applies COSO for comprehensive risk management maturity degree rating to determine the risk controlling  efficiency of the sustainable development strategy management. The quality, environment, and  occupational safety system certifications were taken as basic guarantees and the ISO27000 was adopted to  audit the sustainable development information platform. COSCO Group headquarters uniformly developed  and organized the evaluations and trainings to complete the compilation of each years sustainable  development report in standardized processes. It established standardized risk evaluation and audit  mechanism to satisfy the requirements for sustainable development and comprehensive risk management.  The evaluation and audit team had ensured the reliability of the report with strict working methods. The  
 61 AA1000 and other evaluation and audit tools were adopted to compile the Guidelines for Internal Audit and  Evaluation. The sustainability of different companies were compared and evaluated horizontally and the  sustainability of the enterprise in different stages was compared vertically to ensure the reliability of the  report.   COSCO Group recognized that reliability of social responsibility and sustainable development report  determines the trust degree of related parties, thus affecting the enterprises international position and  reputation. With an aim to improve the credibility of the report, COSCO Group submits each years  sustainable development report to DNV and the Global Compact Promotion Office of China Enterprises  Confederation for a joint third-party evaluation and audit.   7. Establishing strict compilation process and communication mechanism for sustainable  development and social responsibility report, and cautiously issuing the sustainable development  report  Sustainable development report is an important assessment standard for the improvement of corporate core  competitiveness. Its data provides a basis for the investment of stakeholders and the management decisions  of the companys management authorities. Therefore, the accuracy and collection channel of data are very  important. The level of data disclosure and the integration level of the report should be determined by the  decision-making level that conducts management. The companies strictly carried out the data reporting,  review and approval processes. Starting from 2008, all the data should be approved and signed by the legal  representative of the company before submittal.                            8. COSCO Groups institutes and staff for sustainable development  All companies of COSCO Group have established Global Compact promotion teams or Sustainable  Development Committees, along with daily management organs to incorporate the performance of Global  Compact and sustainable development work into daily management functions. The promotion teams consist  of employees from different departments, organize and participate in the work of the Global Compact, and  promote sustainable development. The number of employees engaged in the work of the Global Compact  and sustainable development within the entire Group has increased year on year. In 2008, a total of 325  employees from COSCO Group headquarters and companies that implement the Global Compact have  incorporated the promotion of Global Compact into their official responsibilities. To ensure the quality of  the performance of Global Compact and sustainable development, COSCO Group headquarters allocated  and approved special funds.  Year  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  Number of people  24  26  33  116  173  173  325  To ensure the construction of sustainable development system, COSCO Group established a top-down  system of promoter team, indicator data collection team, report compilation team, IT information platform  construction and support team and internal auditor team.   The sustainable development management system promoter team consists of full-time employees from  companies at all levels. Each department or office designates one staff member to be in charge of the  
 62 sustainable development management system construction and operation work of the department. There are  thousands of promoters in the entire Group.   COSCO Group also established a 45-member team for the compilation of sustainable development report,  among whom 22 were the core members who took part in the whole process of data collation, material  selection, report compilation, improvement, submission and assessment. Each member participated in the  work for 30 days, and the total concentrated working period was 1350 man days.   Report sections  Content  People in charge  Strategies and general  situation  Section I: President Statement, Strategies  and Analysis  Section II: Introduction to COSCO Group Section III: Companies Implementing  Sustainable Development  Section IV: Report Overview  Section V: Awards  Ma Hongjin, Yan Ge  Management and  stakeholder  participation  Section I: company management  Section II: Major Policies and  Management System  Section III: Global Compact, Overall Risk  Management and Sustainable  Development  Section IV: Stakeholder Participation  Liu Xiaoping, Zhao Haotian, Yu  Bo  Economic  performance report    Zhuang Shaohuang, Xu Ming  Environmental  performance report    Huang Yejian, He Jiansheng  Products performance  report    Guo Shisheng, Li Tongchun, Wu  Fei, Chang Wenguang  Labor performance  report    Jiang Yongbo, Zhang Bingcheng  Human rights  performance report    Zheng Yongjiang, Sun Xuemei  Social performance  report    Wang Xiao, Ding Dan  Draft compilation    Zhao Meng, Zheng Xiaofeng  Translation    Pan Deng, Tao Runyuan  Assessment    Ma Xinying, Jia Lianjun  Other participants    Zhu Fengyuan, Cao Bin, Zhang Yu,  Hu Yayu, Li Lianhua, Gu Zhiyong,  Dong Jie, Wang Shumin, Ying  Haifeng,  Liu  Weini,  Zhou  Zhenyang, Wang Xintian, Hu Xi  9. COSCO Group will raise the level of IT application to pursue sustainable development and  establish a highly efficient reporting mechanism.  The COSCO Group integrated IT application with the sustainable development management on the basis of  its advantages in IT application and interpretation of corporate social responsibility. It not only met the  requirements of making annual reports on sustainable development and more efficiently shouldered the  corporate social responsibility, but also increased the competitiveness of the Group and gave impetus for  future development.  The COSCO Group studied the Guideline on Fulfilling Social Responsibility by Central Enterprise released  by the Sate-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC), developed the  consciousness of corporate social responsibility, established and improved the sustainable management  system and set up a long-term mechanism of social responsibility and sustainable development. The Group  
 63 created a sustainable information platform by applying IT. Therefore the system has become more effective,  the staff has become more aware of the social responsibility and concrete actions have been taken to  achieve sustainable development. In addition, the Group analyzed the problems of the previous system. To  seek optimized solution and facilitate the management of the system and reporting, the Group set objectives  to improve the platform:   (1) establish an inclusive information system and develop clear workflow to achieve sustainable  development;  (2) establish an advanced information system of sustainable development, manage the workflow to improve  the management system, and monitor the system to strengthen the internal control;  (3) set phased objectives to follow up and examine the efforts of pursuing sustainable development;  (4) and compare with statistics of other enterprises in the same industry to guide the Group to make  strategies and guidelines for sustainable development.    On the basis of the extended and improved previous system, the new system has four new major functions:  separate management of objectives, engine of the workflow, sublicense of the system and multilingual  conversion. At the same time, some basic functions were added, such as information portal, customized  information service, inquiry management and indicator settlement. Safety test and stress test were made to  test the information platform.  The improved information platform has added new sources of indicator material, rationalized the reporting  process and introduced the objective-oriented management mechanism. As a result, the system of  sustainable development could be managed step by step according to plans and the indicator system  responsible for check-up of performance could be more rational.  The information platform will help to improve the management of core indicators of sustainable  development. The Group will have access to and manage the subsidiaries indicators related to sustainable  development through internet. Therefore, it can inquire, assess and analyze the overall operation of the  corporation from different aspects and levels. It can manage the process of making the sustainable  development report in a highly efficient and sound way. Practical technologies will be available for  presenting the whole society the corporate contributions to the UN Global Compact and social  responsibility in a timely and precise manner.        
 64 (IV) Achievement of COSCO Group Sustainable Development Report  COSCO Groups first report issued in 2006, COSCO Group Sustainable Development Report 2005, was  chosen as a notable COP by the UN Global Compact, making COSCO Group the first Chinese enterprise  and first shipping company to win this honor. Afterwards, the 2006 and 2007 Sustainable Development  Report were also chosen as notable COPs, which means COSCO Group has become the first Chinese, or  even Asian enterprise to have won this title for three consecutive years from 2005 to 2007.   Meanwhile, COSCO Groups Sustainable Development Report 2007 was awarded Global Compact  Network China Notable Report Award.                   December 20, 2006, press  conference held in Beijing  COSCO Group 2005 Sustainable  Development Report  Chosen as a notable COP by the UN  Global Compact  December 20, 2007  COSCO Group 2006 Sustainable  Development Report  Chosen as a notable COP by the UN  Global Compact  July 31, 2008  COSCO Group 2007 Sustainable  Development Report  Chosen as a notable COP by the UN  Global Compact                                        (V) COSCO Groups plans for implementing the UN Global Compact and pursuing sustainable  development in the next year  According to requirements of the Guide for Participants of the UN Global Compact, it is a long and  complicated project to improve the process: Global Compact/social responsibility/strategies of sustainable  development=overall risk management. It is also a lasting process to improve the report of performance and  achievement and implement the Global Compact in the COSCO Group in a more extensive and profound  way.  
 65   1. Integrate strategies, operation and risk management into the management system of sustainable  development to accelerate the sustainable development, implement the Global Compact and shoulder  corporate social responsibility in the Group. In the Regulations on Implementing the Global Compact,  systematic documents and procedures will add KPI and KRI. The Group will establish a quantized  management system and apply IT to meet the personalized demands of various users.  2. Integrate the comprehensive management system of quality, environment and safety with overall risk  management and the sustainable development system to improve the management system in the Group and  subsidiaries. All companies should establish three basic management systems of quality, environment and  occupational safety and get relevant certificates to meet basic demands of the sustainable management  system and integrate with it.  3. Adopt general mechanisms and procedures in the sustainable development system for the Group and  subsidiaries. Keep in line with demands of the sustainable development system, conduct customers  satisfaction survey and employees satisfaction survey, collect exchange information, evaluate of the  investments social and environmental risks to ensure the data can be used and processed.  4. Improve the information platform of the Group, transplant it into subsidiaries and collect first hand data  of subsidiaries to ensure the quality and processing efficiency of the data.  5. Apply Six Sigma to reduce fluctuations, and use lean management to improve the efficiency, and  establish a management system that closely links the Group and its subsidiaries.  II. The state and report of overall risk management  The Group has always attached great importance to improving the management. Based on the reality of the  Group, it has introduced, studied and applied advanced management concepts and methods to improve the  management and control the risks.          
 66 1996  The Group implemented ISO9000 Quality Management System Standards to regularize  decision-making and management;  2000  The Group implemented ISO14000:1996 Environmental Management System Standards,  OHSAS18000 Occupational Health and Safety Management System Standards,  ISO17799 Information Safety Management System Standards to build a comprehensive  management system;  2002  The Group digitized corporate management with Six-Sigma management strategy;  2003  The Group was the first company in China to implement AS4360 and COSO ERM Risk  Management Standards; it combined the theoretical concept of overall risk management  system proposed by the SASAC with COSCO Groups existing management system to  build a complete management system;  2004  The Group coordinated with the SASAC to conduct researches on corporate risk  management and set a good example as the first pilot enterprise to participate into the  researches in this regard;  2005  On the basis of the Groups researches on risk management, it carried risk assessment to  coordinate with the application of building of the system. The Group assessed its risks by  identifying 946 risks and classifying them into 61 categories. Among the risks, 14 were  identified as major risks. Accordingly, the working group provided references for the  Group to make decisions, choose strategies and identify the priority on risk management  by creating a risk database and drawing a risk map.  2006  COSCO Group head office redesigned its business flows according to the Guidelines on  Corporate  Social  Responsibilities  Management  System  of  Global  Compact,  Comprehensive risk management Guidance for Central Enterprises and GRI Sustainable  Development Guidance, and integrated the articles and terms of comprehensive risk  management and Global Compact into its decision-making processes and business  procedures. It asked all the staff to work according to requirements of Global Compact,  social responsibility and risk management and empowerment. The head office set up the  framework of the comprehensive risk management and the preliminary IT system of  comprehensive risk management, making the COSCO Group the first central enterprise  to set up the preliminary IT system of comprehensive risk management.  2007  The Group established the Risk Management Commission. The head office improved the  comprehensive risk management system and established a quantized risk management  system. COSCO Container Lines co., LTD, COSCO Hong Kong Shipping Co., LTD and  Xiamen Ocean Shipping company established the systematic framework of  comprehensive risk management. Based on the information platform of sustainable  development, the Group integrated the requirements of comprehensive risk management  with sustainable development and established a professional information system of  comprehensive risk management to accomplish building the basic platform.  2008 was a year for the COSCO Group to intensify its reform. The Group took comprehensive risk  management as its priority to pursue sustainable development.  1. The Group appointed the first Chief Risk Officer (CRO) of central enterprises. He was responsible for  sustainable development, comprehensive risk management, development of the head office as well as  organizations and functions of risk management to lay a foundation for sustainable development and the  operation of the system of comprehensive risk management.  2. To institutionalize and standardize strategies of sustainable development and comprehensive risk  management, the Group redesigned its business flows in accordance with the Guidelines on Corporate  Social Responsibilities Management System of Global Compact, Comprehensive risk management  Guidance for Central Enterprises and GRI Sustainable Development Guidance. It integrated the articles and  terms of comprehensive risk management and Global Compact into its decision-making processes and  business procedures and set up risk management procedures for the key flows. It asked all the staff to work  according to requirements of Global Compact, social responsibility and risk management and  empowerment.    
 67 3. The Group developed its own risk assessment models by referring to the Risk Management Standard  AS4360 and US COSO Comprehensive risk management Framework and applying Six Sigma. It carried  out scientific risk assessment by assessing risk frequency and risk impacts, predicting risks, responding to  difficult 3D independent variables and collecting 1-10 contiguous data. The Group revised the results of  risk assessment, producing a comprehensive and precise judgment of risks of the head office and identified  major risks and management priority.                        4. Management of departments and subsidiaries of the Group concentrated on risks and was based on  characteristics of their risk management. On the basis of operational risk management, risk management  will be reached out to strategic risks, market risks, financial risks, legal risks and social responsibility risks.  5. The Group used ISO9000 quality control system, centered on risk management, built social  responsibility management system and ERM management system, established an effective mechanism for  implementing Global Compact and social responsibility, regulated enterprise social responsibility behaviors  so as to realize corporate value and harmonious development of environment and natural resources.  6. Based on Guide on Guideline on Fulfilling Social Responsibility by Central Enterprise, the annual  comprehensive risk management report of COSCO was issued to systematically summarize and report the  implementation, operation and achievements of comprehensive risk management in the Group.    III. IT facilitates the Group to realize ERM and sustainable management  Given that ERM is a hi-tech, comprehensive and demanding task to which information system can lend a  hand in the information process, the Group identifies the target of completing ERM system and information  platform building in three years.  To ensure the comprehensive risk management data is reliable, COSCO developed a system with  sustainable information management platform. The system enables data collection, statistics analysis,  report issuing, information disclosure and data management. Through master plan and step-by-step  implementation, the Group is able to form a multi-level data base with basic indicators, which is not only  helpful in issuing the annual comprehensive risk management report, but also in real time monitoring.                        
 68 2004-2005: In June 2004, the Group took the initiate to participate in researches of the SASAC. In April  2005, consulting firms conducted researches on risk management.  2006: In June 2006, the SASAC released the Guidelines for Comprehensive risk management. In October  2006, the Group began with the preliminary work of the information system of comprehensive risk  management.   2007: In February 2007, the Group developed modules such as risk identification, risk assessment, risk  analysis, risk control, risk warning and risk report.  2008: In September 2008, the Group ensured the risk management and control with the help of information  platform. It concentrated on risk management to pursue the all-round sustainable development.  According to the Comprehensive Risk Management system building program, the Group, following the  Guide on Comprehensive Risk Management of Central Enterprises issued by SASAC and based on realities  in COSCO, is developing a comprehensive risk management information system on sustainable  information management platform, studying the demand and developing a comprehensive risk management  information system, including enacting strategies against risks, collecting, assessing, analysing, responding  and monitoring risks, managing the risk response system, integrating business, alarming system, risk  reporting, system monitoring, managing risk base and information transparency. The Group is seeking to  improve its information disclosure mechanism and form a complete comprehensive risk management  information system.     Through the system, hopefully the following goals can be reached:    Building a comprehensive risk management-centered information system. risk map and analysis report  provide group management team with information for decision making; risk assessment and risk  control promote risk consciousness inside the Group. Meanwhile comprehensive risk management  information system is closely connected with enterprise business, and thus reflects business  performance of the Group and the mutual influence.    Building an advanced comprehensive risk management system. Improve management system through  risk control practices. Enhance inner management through system monitoring and other functions.    Building a set of practical comprehensive risk management system. By collecting key business  indicators and realizing real time monitoring of big risks, the goal of avoiding risks through  preemptive actions can be achieved.    By this system, the Group is able to identify and prevent risk, design and adopt responsive measures,  reduce loss, creating economic value, and improve the Group's image and risk management.    
 69 V. UN Global Compact supervision team highly praised the implementation  To promote Global Compact member unit to honor their commitments, UN Global Compact Office sent a  supervision team on a global tour to check the implementation in 2008.  On May 15, 2008, Wei Jiafu, president of COSCO, and Li  Jianhong, vice president and Chief Executive Officer of risk  management, met Liu Meng, senior official of UN Global  Compact Office and head of China division, and Sun Yuping,  office of UN Global Compact Promotion (China) respectively.  The supervision team checked the work of Global Compact  member units according to the assignment of UN Global  Compact Office. COSCO, as the modal unit and the only  enterprise that had speaker sharing experience in the 2007  Global Compact Leaders Summit, was one of the first to  receive the honor for supervision. It accepted the examination  for the title of Global Contract Pioneer and Head of  enterprises with Social Responsibility.  COSCO Groups donation to Wenchuan Earthquake in Sichuan had won high praises from the Global  Compact. The disaster-relief action of COSCO Group undoubtedly plays a leading role for Global Compact  member units in China and even in the world to perform social responsibilities.   Liu Meng, on behalf of Georg Kell, chief director of Global Compact, congratulated COSCO Groups  achievements in performing social responsibilities. Liu Hoped that COSCO Group could continue its  efforts and try to be a leader in social responsibility of worlds shipping industry.                                                       
 70 Part IV. Participation of stakeholders  The group will identify and choose shareholders according to their influence on risks of sustainable  development and on COSCO.  Stakeholders identification, communication and use of information of COSCO Group:  Name of  stakeholders  Way of  communication  Expectation on  COSCO Group  Examples of  detailed  requirements  Main indicators Government  (Chinese  Government and  local government  where the business  located)  Law and  regulation, policy  and direction  issuance, national  and ministry  conference, special  report, forms, visit Continuous and  stable growth,  taxation income,  employment  opportunities,  driving global  prosperity  Building  harmonious  society,  economical  society, and  low-compliance  requirements  Total tax,  employment  opportunities  created  Investors (with  State-owned  Assets Supervision  and  Administration  Commission as  representative of  investors  Issuance and  implementation of  documents,  participation in  conferences and  fulfillment of  sprits conveyed at  the conferences,  periodical report,  business  administrative  sectors daily  communications,  reports and visit  Continuously  improve  companys  profitability and  key  competitiveness,  ensure value  maintenance and  appreciation of  state-owned assets Requirements of  comprehensive  risk management,  enterprise  sustainable  development,  enterprise social  reliability report,  construction of  resource-saving  enterprise, and  requirements of  related evaluation  indicators  Profit, capital  return ratio, rate  for value  maintenance and  appreciation of  state-owned assets,  total debts,  asset-liability  ratio, owners  equity  Other shareholders  (shareholders of  all listed  companies of  COSCO Group  and potential  shareholders)  Annual report,  shareholders  conference,  written report for  shareholders  Continuously  improve  companys value  and market value,  decrease enterprise  risk, ensure  enterprise  sustainable  development  Publicly disclose  important  company  information,  opportunities for  equal  participation,  protection over  shareholders  interest  Market value,  listed companies  reward ratio,  minority  shareholders  rights and  interests, number  of listed  companies  Strategic  cooperation  partners (juridical  persons signing  agreements with  COSCO on  strategic  cooperation, joint  operation and joint  venture)  Contract  enforcement,  periodical  meeting, top  management  meeting, file and  mail transfer, daily  communication  Constantly  improve  profitability in  strategic  cooperation,  ensure common  interest of strategic  partners  Information and  resource sharing,  management  innovation,  win-win  cooperation  Sales revenues,  return on capital,  market occupancy Clients (direct  clients purchasing  any product or  services of  COSCO Group)  Client conference,  suggestion  collection, daily  communications  with sales  Provide  high-quality  products and  services at  reasonable price,  Responding speed,  individualized  services for  clients, service  quality  Customer  satisfaction ratio,  comprehensive  on-time ratio  
 71 representatives  make continuous  improvement  Subsidiaries  (COSCO Groups  wholly owned,  joint venture, joint  operation, and  cooperative  companies)  Business meeting,  suggestion  collection, top  management  meeting, daily  business mail  communications  Provide accurate  decision and  scientific  management,  continuously  improve  management  quality level and  efficiency  Market command  capability,  high-efficiency  decision-making,  transparent and  democratic  management,  capital guarantee  and turnover  Profit, sales  revenue, carrying  capacity and  turnover capacity,  return on capital,  debt ratio  All members in  corporation  organization  structure  Rational  suggestions,  presidents  mailbox,  conference,  suggestion  collection,  communications  Continuously  improve  companys  profitability and  sustainable  development  ability, provide  more welfare and  promotion  opportunities to  employees  Career  development,  opportunity,  treatment, graceful  and confident  working  environment  Employees  satisfaction,  employee loyalty,  job-hopping ratio,  investment in  employee training Suppliers  (suppliers and  contractors  including ship  agency, freight  forwarding,  classification  society, service  provider,  consulting  companies,  certification and  auditing units, etc)  Contract and  agreement  negotiation,  periodical visit,  bidding meeting,  suggestion  collection  Have the  opportunity to  serve for COSCO  Group in long  period of time and  get reasonable  benefits  Reasonable price,  stable policy,  win-win  cooperation  Number of  business partners,  bunker costs,  ship-building  costs, payment  percentage in  compliance with  contract articles  Financial and  insurance units of  bond owners  Contract  negotiation,  periodical visit,  business operators  daily  communication  Operate stably to  ensure timely  payment and  prevent risks  Timely payment,  reduction of risky  events    Workers unions  (workers unions  in China and in  places where it  operate  businesses)  Speaking rights on  important  company  decisions,  collective  negotiation, labor  union  representatives in  periodical  communication,  staff representative  conference  Respect labor  rights, comply  with requirements  of workers  unions, protect  legal rights and  interests of  employees  Respects to staffs  rights and  interests,  complying with  requirements on  democratic  management and  transparent  company affairs  Percentage of  employees joining  the workers  union, number of  workers labor  unions in  subsidiaries set by  group labor union,  signing collective  contracts,  employee  participation ratio     
 72 Community (in  China and  business locations)  Signing contract  on joint civilized  construction, joint  program  development,  periodical meeting  for  communication,  parties for  celebrating days  Civilized  production, boost  community  prosperity and  harmony, provide  safe and healthy  living environment Non-pollution and  non-damages on  community  environment, no  safety accidents,  input of resources  to build  harmonious  society  Investment in  community  building, number  of  pollution-related  complaints  Non-governmental  institutions and  organizations  (international  environmental  protection  organizations,  international labor  organizations,  international  maritime  organizations,  industry  associations, local  communities, etc.)  Joining  associations and  holding some  posts, payment of  membership fees,  participation in  project investment,  participation in  activities  beneficial to  industry and  society  Play a driving and  leading role in  various fields of  sustainable  development,  industry  development, and  local development Practices and  resources to meet  standards and  requirements  advocated by  non-profit  organizations of  sustainable  economic  development,  healthy industry  development, local  prosperity and  non-profit  organizations  Quantity of  associations and  societies related to  social  responsibilities  participated,  annual  membership fees,  social contribution  ratio, investment  in social welfares Persons,  organizations and  media interested in  related issues of  the corporation  Press release  conference, active  news report and  propaganda,  periodical report  release, legal  information  disclosure  COSCO Group is  an excellent  enterprise pursuing  healthy  development, and  undertaking social  responsibility is a  way to fulfill the  sustainable  development.  Faithful, healthy,  professional,  internationalized          
 74 1. Actively responding to the call of SASAC, and setting an example of fulfilling social responsibility  After the release of 2008 No. 1 Decree, Guiding Opinions on  Further Promotion of Social Responsibility among Central  Enterprises, of the SASAC of the State Council, the first Central  Enterprises Social Responsibility Theme Meeting was held on  July 11, 2008. Representatives from COSCO Group headquarters  delivered speeches at the meeting, summarizing and sharing  experience and thoughts for the fulfillment of social responsibility.  Present at the meeting were 150 people, including chief leading  cadres from 55 state-owned key enterprises, leaders and  departmental heads in charge of social responsibility work from  central enterprises that had released social responsibility reports,  and comrades from competent authorities of the SASAC.  COSCO Group shared its experience at the social responsibility forum organized by SASAC. Deputy  Director Huang Shuhe spoke highly of COSCO Groups report and encouraged COSCO Group to strive  for better and actively participating in the formulation of international standards.   2. Actively supporting and participating in UN Global Compact  Since COSCO Group was approved to join the UN Global Compact in January 2005, it has formed  long-term strategic relations with UN Global Compact and its Chinese Network Center, and actively  supported and participated in the projects and activities of UN Global Compact.     Supported the translation and publication of the Chinese version of UN Global Compact annual  communication guide     Supported the work conference of UN Global Compact in 2008    Supported the meeting of establishment of UN Global Compact Chinese Network Center  With the development of the UN Global Compact and the growth of  its members, there are five Global Compact Networks have been  established in China alone, and more than 200 Chinese enterprises  and organizations have become members of the UN Global  Compact. To better facilitate the healthy development of UN Global  Compact organizations, UN Global Compact Office has changed  the past practice and decided to sign license agreement with only  one local network organization in each country.   That network shall take the responsibility for the coordination of relevant work on Global Compact and  social responsibility of other network members. In February 2009, the UN Global Compact Office signed a  license agreement with Beijing Rongzhi Corporate Social Responsibility Research Institute whose  subordinate body, the UN Global Compact Chinese Network Center Office, would be responsible for the  organization and coordination of all events and activities carried out in China by the UN Global Compact  Office. On April 20, 2009, Global Compact Chinese Network Center held its establishment meeting at  Beijing COSCO Plaza. Ms Chen Ying, director of Beijing Rongzhi Corporate Social Responsibility  Research Institute, and the first UN Global Compact councilor, was reelected in 2009. COSCO Group  provided conference room for the establishment meeting, and showed supports for the Global Compact  Chinese Network Centre.   3. Taking active part in the project of WBCSD World Shipping Sustainable Development Indicator  Guidelines  COSCO Group participated in the project to formulate World Shipping Sustainable Development Indicator  Guidelines, initiated by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and DNV,  and served as a framer of the standards.       
 75 4. Establishing Golden Bee Corporate Social Responsibility China Roll, and promoting the healthy  development of the cause of sustainable development  The Golden Bee Corporate Social Responsibility China Roll,  founded by COSCO Group, world famous transnational  corporation BASF and China WTO Tribune, was unveiled in  Beijing on April 25, 2008. Twelve enterprises, including State  Grid, were awarded 2007 Golden Bee Award for Leading  Enterprises. Six, including Liby Group, received the Golden  Bee Award for Growing Enterprises, and eleven, including  Haier Group, were honored with six Individual Awards.  Another 31 enterprises, including Shanghai Jielong Printing  Group, were shortlisted on the Golden Bee Roll.   President Wei Jiafu said in a video speech at the release ceremony of Golden Bee Enterprise Social  Responsibility China Roll that over the years COSCO Group continued to improve its management system  in the course of globalized development, and made use of the chance of participation in the UN Global  Compact to improve the construction and quality level of its management system. The Groups  competitiveness was greatly enhanced. It was hoped that the Golden Bee Award would promote the  construction of long-term mechanism among more enterprises to perform their social responsibilities and  embrace their corporate competitiveness.   5. Signing Acting on Climate Change and Universal Declaration of Human Rights  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon visited  China on July 2, 2008 and met with companies participating  in the Global Compact. President Wei Jiafu delivered a  speech on behalf of Chinese enterprises, introduced COSCO  Groups practice of corporate social responsibility and  implementation of Global Compact. President Wei Jiafu  delivered a speech on behalf of Chinese enterprises,  introducing COSCO Groups practice of corporate social  responsibility and implementation of the Global Compact, and announcing the participation of COSCO  Group in the UN Acting on Climate Change. COSCO Group would actively comply with the series of  basic principles and measures for acting on climate change proposed by the declaration. As the first  Chinese enterprise to sign both the Acting on Climate Change declaration and the Universal Declaration of  Human Rights, COSCO Group won great prestige for Chinese enterprises.   6. Strategic cooperation agreement with the Government, major clients, and suppliers  In 2008, COSCO Group continued to implement its major clients strategy, and actively established  strategic cooperation partnerships with local governments and large corporate groups to facilitate the  sustainable development of both parties. In this year, COSCO Group signed strategic cooperation  agreements with local governments including Guangdong, Hunan, Hubei, Jiangxi, Shanxi, Anhui, Henan,  and Hebei Provinces, and with the Chinese Ministry of Railways, the People's Bank of China, and Wuhan  Iron and Steel (Group).   7. Organizing World Shipping Summit 2008  The World Shipping (China) Summit 2008, also known as Maritime  Davos, unveiled at Dalian Shangri-la Hotel. The annual meeting  attracted senior governmental officials, industrial experts, CEOs and  senior executives from related industries from home and abroad to  deliver speeches. More than 1,000 world famous experts, scholars and  representatives from global shipping and related industries were  present at the Summit. The opening ceremony was hosted by Zhang  Fusheng, Secretary of the Party of COSCO Group.   The World Shipping (China) Summit was jointly initiated by COSCO Group, UK Drewry Shipping  Consultants Limited, China Maritime magazine and the US Journal of Commerce in July 2004. The themes  of the Summit were Focus on Chinas Development, Spotlight on Global Hotspots, Promotion of Industrial  
 76 Interaction, and Pursuit for Cooperation and Mutual Benefit. The situation of economy and trade was  analyzed, the future of maritime industry predicted, new industrial tasks discussed, and the cooperation and  mutual benefits of the shipping industry were perused from the perspective of port-ship interaction. Also  discussed were whether the capital market still had an eye for the shipping industry, issues on green  innovation, and new reforms in maritime industry, etc. The Summit was the largest in scale, highest in level,  and most remarkable maritime peak forum in the global maritime industry.   The Summit in 2008 lasted for two days, and focused on the theme of Weighing the Situation and Drawing  up Plans. The topics included Wind, Tide, Rush, Move, Weighing, Trend, Use, and Plan, which outlined  and highlighted the current trends in shipping market. Against the current background of complicated and  ever changing international economy and trade situation, and global shipping market, the Summit provided  an information exchange platform for the representatives.   Wei jiafu, President of COSCO Group, was present at the meeting and delivered a speech entitled Market  Needs Confidence. He pointed out in the speech that along with cost and risk control, shipping industries  should establish confidence, watch calmly, enhance cooperation, actively respond to changes, and strive for  a better tomorrow of the maritime industry. He also emphasized that crisis was the coexistence of both  challenge and opportunity.   8. International exchange activities   On February 22, at the invitation of the Ministry of Commerce,  Wei Jiafu, President of COSCO Group, delivered a speech  entitled From Translational Operation to Global COSCO at the  6th Transnational Corporations China Forum 2008 hosted by  CAITEC, introducing COSCO Groups experience in global  development to more than 300 distinguished guests from home  and aboard.   On March 22, 2008, COSCO Group President Wei Jiafu attended  the China Development High Level Forum and Annual Meeting  2008 held at Diaoyutai State Guesthouse in Beijing, and delivered  a theme speech at the session on Corporate Social Responsibility  in Coping with Global Warming.   On June 13, Chinese and Foreign Transnational Corporations  Internaitonal Annual Meeting 2008, jointly sponsored by the  Ministry of Commerce, Investment Promotion Bureau of Hong  Kong SAR Government and China Group Companies Promotion  Association, was held in Beijing. The Ministry of Commerce,  Ministry of Finance, and State Assets Administration Committee  and a number of famous enterprises from home and aboard,  including COSCO Group and EDF, etc, were present at the  meeting. President Wei Jiafu delivered a speech entitled  Prioritizing Responsibility, Global Development, introducing  COSCO Groups achievements in terms of listed operation,  international competition globalization, and social responsibility  globalization, etc. The speech was highly evaluated by  representatives at the meeting.   On June 13, the 6th council of China Group Companies Promotion Association held its first member  meeting. The meeting was presided over by Wei Jiafu, chairman of the 5th council of China Group  Companies Promotion Association and President of COSCO Group. The Work Report of the Fifth  Standing Committee was voted and approved at the meeting. Ten people, including President Wei Jiafu,  were elected as the honorary chairperson of the CGCPA, and 19 people, including COSCO Group  vice-President Li Jianhong, were elected vice-chairperson. Xu Lejiang, chairman of the 6th council of  CGCPA, read a Letter of Thanks to President Wei Jiafu on behalf of the council, extending gratitude to  President Wei for his outstanding contributions to the CGCPA and its members during his two consecutive  terms as chairman. All representatives at the meeting gave a warm applause to Chairman Wei Jiafu.   
 77 On October 28, the International Maritime University of Panama awarded  a Medal of Honor and Certificate to President Wei Jiafu for COSCO  Groups contribution to the Universitys school building reconstruction.   On November 24, Greek Prime Minister Karamanlis kindly received  COSCO Group President Wei Jiafu in Athens, and extended warm  congratulations for the investment cooperation agreement to be signed  between COSCO Group and Greeces Piraeus Port.   On the evening of December 9, 2008, at the invitation of Sheng Huaren, Vice-Chairman of the 10th NPC  Standing Committee and Ji Peiding, chairman of the Association of Former Diplomats of China, President  Wei attended the preparatory meeting of Chinese and foreign think tank for energy cooperation at  Diaoyutai State Guesthouse. Six energy-related enterprises, COSCO Group, PetroChina, Sinopec, CNOOC,  China National Nuclear Corporation and Shenhua Group attended the meeting. The tasks, objectives,  organization establishment and working principles of the Chinese and foreign think tank for energy  cooperation were discussed at the meeting. Sheng Huaren was recommended as Senior Consultant, and  COSCO Group President Wei Jiafu and Presidents of the other 5 enterprises were recommended as  consultants.   9. Popularization and cooperation of COSCO Group sustainable development information platform  In International economic and trade cooperation, enterprise cooperation, as an extensive, regular and  effective way of economic cooperation, has drawn the interest of all countries. And the obtaining of report  rating of GRI initiated by the United Nations would facilitate cooperation with enterprises and  organizations from home and aboard in terms of economy, environment and society.   COSCO Groups Sustainable Development Information Management System is an information  management platform designed and developed on the basis of the Global Compact and related concepts of  corporate social responsibility and combined with relevant guidelines, initiatives and standards of different  international organizations (Global Compact, OECD, GRI, AA). After 5 or 6 years successful internal  practice, the design of the system was expanded by taking into consideration the enterprises own  management system requirements, studying and comparing relevant characteristics of corporate social  responsibility management home and abroad, and referring to the third-party assessment and certification  of DNV, GRI and Global Compact. It can be said to have great commonality and market values.   The system can serve relevant enterprises and organizations performing the Global Compact and corporate  social responsibility. It is open and flexible enough to be applied by different enterprises in different  industries, therefore meets the urgent needs of relevant organizations of promoting corporate social  responsibility and enhancing the management of sustainable development. It can not only serve large  conglomerates well, but also provide helpful guidance for the construction of social responsibility  management system in small and medium-sized enterprises. It plays a prominent role of guidance and  support particularly in the steel, energy, logistics, and other labor-intensive industries. Therefore COSCO  Groups sustainable development information platform was recommended by the international organization  for standardization ISO as an accessory for ISO26000 (standards for social responsibility).  COSCO Network (Beijing) Company, as a R&D institute for COSCO Groups sustainable development  information management platform, signed a strategic cooperation agreement with Global Compact Chinese  Network Center Office. The Chinese Network Center, as a sustainable development research organization  authorized by the United Nations Global Compact Office, actively promoted sustainable development  activities focusing on corporate social responsibility, environmental protection and clean production.  COSCO Network (Beijing) Company, as a subordinate body of COSCO Group, made use of its powerful  technological advantages to promote sustainable development activities and to meet market needs. The  company independently developed the sustainable development information management system in order  to comprehensively promote and coordinate sustainable development, establish win-win cooperation  relations, join hands with other companies to fulfill social responsibilities, establish a resource-conserving  society, and make active contribution to the realization of corporate sustainable development.        
 78 10. Actively participating in and supporting the popularization of GRI Sustainable Development  Guideline and AA1000 Sustainable Development Assurance Standards  COSCO Group took active part in the Social Responsibility Executors  Roundtable Talk organized by GRI, introducing and promoting the  application of GRI Sustainable Development Guideline in corporate  management.   COSCO Group actively supported AA1000 Sustainable Development  Assurance Standards, taking part in the preparation and supporting the press  conference for AA1000 Sustainable Development Assurance Standards  Chinese version.   11. Actively implementing the influence of supply chain social responsibility influence, promoting  experience of social responsibility for corporate output, and facilitating the progress of social  responsibility in business circles  In 2008, COSCO Group provided lectures for Anshan Iron and Steel Group on social responsibility  implementation, discussed with CNOOC about the construction of sustainable development information  platform, and shared experience with China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group, Baoshan Iron & Steel  Group and Yantian Port.   12. Promoting the implementation of sustainable development strategy with a number of  intermediaries, including Det Norske Veritas, China Classification Society, First Huida Risk  Management, BSR, GTZ, and SBTY Six Sigma Consulting, etc.   Certification companies, including DNV and CCS, discovered risks and opportunities through system  evaluation and report check, and facilitated the improvement of COSCO Group. First Huida Risk  Management and COSCO Group practiced together overall risk management and built quantized overall  risk management system. SBTY and COSCO Group developed the application of six-sigma technology in  risk management and Sustainable Development Report. From 2008, data mining and analysis will be  conducted in COSCO Groups Sustainable Development Report.                         
 80 Part C Management approaches and performance indicators  Part I Economic performance indicator and key report  I. Management approaches   1. Objectives and performances  COSCO Group accepts the obligation of "comprehensive development and establishing its leading  positions in international shipping, logistics business, terminal operation and ship-building/ship-repairing  industries, keeping the honest and trustworthy relationships with customers, employees and partners, and  bringing best returns to shareholders, the society and the environment, and fulfills its responsibilities as  corporate citizenship by taking technology as a tool and benefits as the core while adhering to the  human-oriented and market-oriented principles. It sticks to the twin drivers of production operation and  capital operation to make international shipping business stronger, expand logistics and terminal business,  and develop the ship-building and ship-repairing businesses. With shipping business as the basis, COSCO  Group propels its transformation from a global shipping carrier to a global logistics operator and  international shipping logistics system integrator and from a cross-border business player to a transnational  company and global conglomerate, so as to build harmonious and evergreen COSCO and fulfill its healthy,  fast and sustainable development.   Since 2004, profits of COSCO Group had exceeded RMB 10 billion for five years in a row. COCSO has  been rated the A-class in annual inspection of the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration  Commission for successive three years from 2004 to 2006 and was rated as A-class again in three-year  tenure again in 2007. In 2008, it was also rated A-class in annual evaluation again.   While keeping its economic performance, COSCO Group also paid back to society by establishing and  running the charity foundation.  2. Policies and regulations  COSCO Group headquarters establishes the decision-making quality management system with ISO9000 as  the framework, bringing decision-making management and objective management into the system. It also  promotes comprehensive risk management system to control decision-making and operation risks. Besides,  it adopts lean management to optimize business flows, reduce wastes in operation and reduce operational  costs. All shipping, logistics and ship-building/ship-repairing subsidiaries also gradually establish and  implement the quality, environment and occupational health & safety management systems to bring the  decision-making, production and management processes into system. They also commenced the  establishment of comprehensive risk management system to control decision-making and operational risks.  3. Organization and responsibilities  COSCO Group headquarters and its subsidiaries have set up special departments for the management  system, and assigned the decision-making and management functionalities to each functional department  through the Working Standards.  Office in the COSCO Group headquarters is responsible for system maintenance and control of the  headquarters. The Strategic Development Department is responsible for assignment of their targets to its  subsidiaries and for supervision and evaluation on annual production and operation objectives of its  subsidiaries. The Supervision Department is responsible for audit of operational performance of its  subsidiaries. The Transportation Department, Safety Supervision Department, Accounting Department and  other departments of the group are responsible for guidance, supervision and inspection and for establishing  strategic partnership with related parties.  Subsidiaries of COSCO Group shall sub-divide the objectives assigned by the headquarters layer-by-layer,  and analyze and report the fulfillment progress to the headquarters on a monthly basis. The offices in  second-tier companies shall be responsible for system operation and maintenance, while functional  departments are responsible for business expansion and implementation of production activities based on  their respective work as well as related system documents regarding contract control, transportation &  production service, procurement control, and working procedure control.    
 81 4. Training and communications  COSCO Group has established the Employee Training Procedures and identified employees' training needs  from corporate development strategy, business demands, basic information of employees and career  development. Each year, it formulates training plans, establishes mechanism and put special money to carry  out multiple-formed trainings, and facilitates communications of all layers by ways such as meetings,  internal information network, newspapers and news briefs. Subsidiaries of COSCO Group formulated  annual training plans of the companies based on annual training plan of the headquarters and in  combination with their practical situation. Trainings were organized to improve occupational quality and  working skills of employees and ensure the effective fulfillment of the group's strategies and objectives.  5. Supervision and inspection  COSCO Group's supervision over economic performance is fulfilled by following ways: First, evaluation  and constant improvements on decision-making processes through after-decision evaluation, internal audit  of management system and management evaluation; Second, daily and annual inspection through  establishment of annual operational objectives, balance score card, performance indicators and other  indicator systems; Third, audit supervision and effectiveness supervision over operational performances  conducted by specific audit & supervision departments of COSCO Group headquarters and its subsidiaries;  Fourth, operational supervision and control of management system; Fifth, first-party audit conducted by  COSCO Group headquarters on its subsidiaries and second-party audit conducted by the subsidiaries on the  headquarters.  The comprehensive management systems regarding quality, environment and occupational health & safety  on COSCO Group headquarters won the jointly certification of DNV and CCS Quality Assurance  Company. With the establishment of the Global Compact and sustainable development management system,  quality, environment and occupational health & safety management systems were further improved.  All subsidiaries of COSCO Group has started to establish quality, environment and occupational health &  safety management systems and organized related certifications (Please refer to following table for  management system certification status of the companies.) The table below shows establishment and  operation status of quality management system (according to ISO9000 standards), Global Compact  sustainable development management system, and information safety management system of all  companies.   Unit  Quality management standards  Other management standards   Established  Certified  Established  Certified  COSCO Group headquarters          China COSCO           COSCO Container Lines          COSCO Bulk Carrier           COSCO Guangzhou          COSCO Shipping          COSCO Qingdao          COSCO Dalian          COSCO Xiamen          COSCO Hong Kong          COSCO Logistics          COSCO Shipyard          COSCO Shipbuilding          CHIMBUSCO          Hainan Boao COSCO          China Ocean Shipping Tally          COSCO Human Resources/COSCO  Manning          COSCO Finance          
 82 China Ocean Shipping News          Maritime China Magazine          COSCO U.K.          Symbol: Completed  Global Compact and sustainable development management system  Information safety  management system  II. Performance indicators  In 2008, COSCO Group ranked the 327th in Fortune Global 500, with the revenue of 27.4303 billion dollars,  a great elevation of 78 places from that of 2007. The group ranked the 37th among top 50 fastest-rising  companies.     A comparison of indicators of COSCO Group from 2006 to 2008      A comparison of indicators of COSCO Group with other shipping companies listed in Global  500 in 2008  Similar with 2007, a total of four shipping companies were listed in Fortune Global 500 in 2008. This year,  COSCO Group ranked the 2nd place, a significant elevation in global shipping industry. Besides, sales  income growth rate and profit rate of COSCO Group still ranked the first in the industry.     Company  name  Ranki ng in  2008  Ranki ng in  2007  Chan ge of  ranki ng  Sales  income  ($ mil.) Change  rate of  sales  income  compared  with 2007  (%)  Growth  rate of  sales  income  (%)  Profits  ($ mil.)  ROA (%)  Profit  ratio  Maersk  106  131  +25  62,637  19.6  5.3  3,330  5.2  5.3  COSCO  Group  327  372  +78  27,430  31.6  6.9  2893  5.2  10.5  NYK  371  405  +1  24,188  6.9  2.3  559  2.7  2.3  MOL  500  494  -6  18,572  19.0  6.8  1264  6.9  6.8      Year  Sales  revenue  ($ mil.)  Rankings  by sales  revenue  Net  profits  ($ mil.)  ($ mil.)  Rankings  by net  profits  ($ mil.)  Total  assets($  mil.)  Rankings  by total  assets  Owners  equities  ($ mil.)  Rankings  by owners  equities  2006  15,413.5  488  1,092.9  328  18,720.1  388  6,170.7  361  2007  20,840.4  405  3,678  145  29,195.6  17,422.5  2008  27,430.3  327  1,893  189  36,314.2  Formal data  are not  available  19,546.4  Formal data  are not  available  
 83      (I) Direct economic value created and distributed by COSCO Group  1. Direct economic value created  In 2008, COSCO Group completed the shipping volume of 440.9857 million tons, with the freight turnover  of 2207.174 billion tonsea miles and operating revenue of 190.64 billion yuan. Of the revenues, logistics  business got RMB 14.3 billion, ship-building/ship-repairing business got RMB 20.598 billion. In shipping  market, COSCO occupies 5.1% of shares. COSCO Group takes a leading role in domestic market in terms  of logistics and ship-repairing businesses. Since 2003, COSCO Group's business revenue has increased  stably, creating a miracle for rapid improvement of comprehensive competiveness of shipping industry and  establishing the COSCO brand in the world. Revenues of COSCO Group in recent years are as follows.   Indicator/year  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  Business  revenue(RMB  10,000)  7,584,285  9,347,026  11,228,824  12,288,250  15,851,351  19,063,965   Fleet size  Self-owned ship fleet size  ship  Indicator  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  Number of ships  86 87 86  85  93 Container ship  Capacity (10,000 TEU)  18.3 18.4 18.2   19.9  29.28 Number of ships  207 208 228  217  224 Dry and bulk carriers  Capacity (10,000 tons)  1,198 1,256 1,431  1,380  1476 Number of ships  14 17 28  27  24 Oil tanker   Capacity (10,000 tons)  108 205 340  338  347 Number of ships  10 8 16  19  22 Other liquid bulk  carriers  Capacity (10,000 tons)  4 4 5.9  8.63  10.4 Number of ships  92 94 97  94  93 General cargo ships   Capacity (10,000 tons)  152 157 170  164.92  161 Other ships   Number of ships   11  11 19  18  18 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 Growthrateofsalesincome Profitratio MAERSK COSCO NYK MOL 
 84 Capacity (10,000 tons)   13  13 20  20.7  20.7 Number of ships  420 425 474  460  474 Total of self-owned  ships  Capacity (10,000 tons)  1,748 1,910 2,237  2,198  2411 Notes: Statistics excluding figures of joint venture companies    Chartered ship fleet size  ship  Indicator  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  Number of ships  17 19 54 59  48 Container ship  Capacity (10,000 TEU)  6.9 7.4 21.7 23.6  20.35 Number of ships  156 130 179 305  292 Dry and bulk  carriers  Capacity (10,000 tons)  1,419 1,296 1,641 2,530  2489 Number of ships  0 0 2 5  5 Oil tanker  Capacity (10,000 tons)  0 0 58 141  141 Number of ships  0 0 1 0  1 Other liquid bulk  carriers  Capacity (10,000 tons)  0 0 0.7 0  0.5 Number of ships  0 1 3 3  9 General cargo ships  Capacity (10,000 tons)  0 2 6 6  22 Number of ships  0 0 2 9  6 Other ships  Capacity (10,000 tons)  0 0 1.7 11  6.82 Number of ships  173 150 241 381  361 Total of Chartered  ships  Capacity (10,000 tons)  1,518 1,396 1,982 2,987  2910 Ship fleet size controlled  ship  Indicator  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  Number of ships  103 106 140 144  141 Container ship  Capacity (10,000 TEU)  25.2 25.8 39.9 43.5  49.63 Number of ships  363 338 407 522  516 Dry and bulk  carriers  Capacity (10,000 tons)  2,617 2,552 3,072 3,910  3965 Number of ships  14 17 30 32  29 Oil tanker  Capacity (10,000 tons)  108 205 398 479  488.5 Number of ships  10 8 17 19  23 Other liquid bulk  carriers  Capacity (10,000 tons)  4 4 6.6 8.6  10.9 Number of ships  92 95 100 97  102 General cargo ships  Capacity (10,000 tons)  152 159 176 171  183 Number of ships  11 11 21 27  24 Other ships  Capacity (10,000 tons)  13 13 22 31  27.56 Number of ships  593 575 715 841  835 Total  ships  controlled  Capacity (10,000 tons)  3,266 3,306 4,219 5,185  5321         
 85                       Registration of ships  Ship flag  Five star flat   Panama flag  Hong Kong flag  Other flag  Number of ships  246  138  80  10                              Transportation and related indicators  Indicator/Year  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  Freight volume (ton)  27022.87 32103.33 35617.33 41158.12  44098.57 Freight turnover (1,000 tonsea mile)  13757.8 15835.6 17078.8 20602.8  22071.74 Average age of self-owned ships (years)  13.9 14.6 15.16 15.48  15.23 Area of logistics yards (10,000 square  meters)  230.34 230.34 230.34 249  249 Area of logistics warehouses (10,000 square  meters)  580 580 129 287  297 Number of holding and shareholding  terminals (unit)  17 21 23 30  32 Number of transport vehicles (unit)  4,222 4,302 4,895 4,821  4664 Number of ships for agency (unit-time)  30,447 38,667 44,335 50,968  201026 Business revenue of logistics business   (RMB 10,000)  173,486 206,623 351,000 1,200,000  1431263 Production volume of ship-repairing  business (RMB 10,000)  268,000 417,000 553,000 787,652  900,500 Production volume of ship-building business  (RMB 10,000)  178,309 201,558 250,278 325,696  1,080,200       
 86 2. Operational costs  Effective cost control is the basic element for success. Shipping industry has obvious market periodicity  and the market is in depression at present, the meaning of cost reduction is far more important, closely  related to existence and sustainable development of enterprises.   COSCO Group has attached great importance to cost control. In 2008, it continued to promote the Lean  Management campaign focusing on cost reduction within the whole group, and enhanced the controlling  strengths on key cost points and administrative expenditure in business. Measures taken by shipping,  logistics, shipbuilding and ship-repairing enterprises are as follows: Firstly, establish cost control  mechanism, decompose cost indicators, detail control measures, improve cost evaluation system and  control operation costs; Secondly, enhance education on sense of cost and elevate the cost-saving  consciousness of employees; Thirdly, carry out many forms of activities and mobilize the cost control  initiative of employees; Fourthly, explore the potentials and manage the key costs; Fifthly, solve the  cost-saving difficulties by using tools such as lean management and QC team, and try to reduce costs.   (1) Lean management and lubrication saving. The Moon Bay from COSCO Guangzhou, through lean  management, has implemented three-step lubrication saving process in the energy-saving and  emission-reduction activity. Firstly, it was to strengthen its equipment maintenance so as to avoid the  running, dripping and draining phenomenon of fuel; secondly, it was to take collection measure on the  temporary dripping, leaking phenomenon which could not be resolved currently due to the lack of  equipment, or to recycle and reuse the equipment; thirdly, it was to change the former regular oil replacing  method, guiding ship lubrication use in accordance with lubrication experience report. In adoption of new  lubrication saving process, The Moon Bay has reduced 4.5 tons lubrication per year, saved lubrication  cost 70,800 yuan.   (2) Speed reduction navigation, fuel consumption reduction. Under the circumstances of ensuring operation  security and precise arrival of passengers and cargo, Shanghai International Ferry Co., Ltds The  Suzhouis adopted economic speed route navigation on its round back from Osaka Japan to Shanghai so as  to reduce the fuel consumption. With the implementation of speed reduction navigation, The Suzhou  reduced 2-3 tons fuel each voyage, which was approximately 100, 000 yuan in fuel consumption at the  current fuel price.  (3) Lightweight, feul cost reduction. The Lianyou 7 from China Marine Bunker (PetroChina) Co., Ltd  Dalian Branch is a second-hand purchased from Japan in the late 1980s, light fuel was in adoption. In  2008,through site visit and technical analysis, the companys fuel technicians and The Lianyou  7management staffs made corresponding modification on fuel pipelines and heating equipment and  achieved the lightweight of fuel through crews scientific operation. Annual fuel cost reduced 190, 000  yuan.   (4) Recommended route, fuel cost in control. VLCC fleet was the main fleet served COSCO Dalian Branch.  While at the meantime, it was with the largest fuel consumption. Through the recommended route ruled by  VLCC, navigation mileage reduction, fuel consumption control, energy-saving, emission reduction, cost  reduction and efficiency enhancement have been achieved. During 2008, the companys 12 VLCC saved  ship schedule for 19 days, reduced fuel savings for 1600 tons, achieved fuel reduction for 1600 tons, cost  savings and efficiency enhancement reached a total of 15.38 million yuan.   (5) Weld increase, steel utilization rate improvement. Steel utilization was one of the major costs of  shipbuilding enterprises thus the increase of steel utilization rate and the reduction of steel utilization  became the most direct and effective measures. The Biotechnology Nesting Hull QC Group of COSCO  Shipbuilding Technology Division Department, through comprehensive consideration and analysis,  adopted weld increase and original shape changing method thus largely increased the steel utilization rate  for 17.5% while reduced steel utilization for 117 tons. Shipbuilding cost has been effectively reduced.  (6) The launch of QC activity, ship communication cost reduction. For the development of ship-shore  communication technology and communication technology, COSCO Xiamen Branch achieved a monthly  reduction of 4361 yuan for each vessel through the launch of QC group activity.   (7) Management strengthening, fuel losses reduction. COSCO Hong Kong especially emphasized on fuel  and lubrication reduction. It has adopted following measures: made rational route design on the premise of  safety; kept the host running at economic speed; while under the promise of safety, reduced the use of  
 87 sub-machine in accordance with loading situation; properly used and managed lubrication, kept the  tightness of lubrication system so as to avoid pollution and deterioration; put an end to the fuel  consumption that caused by the running, dripping and leaking of fuel. COSCO Hong Kong was to  effectively reduce fuel consumption and operation cost by implementation of appropriate measures.   (8) The importance of accumulation. Paying special attention to the details, COSCO Xiamen Branch put an  end to waste and made effort to improve the utilization of blank document. Through the collection of blank  document and remaining documents of high-speed printer, in adoption of stylus printer, those blank  documents would be used for printing single-vote ticket, the less regional ship ticket and temporary  document that submitted to the Customs. This method not only improved the utilization rate of each  document, but also shortened the queue line on high-speed printers and the operation time during peak  time.    (9) Attention to detail, photocopying cost reduction. From 2008, COSCO Hong Kong began to use Konica  Minolta Copier (multifunctional printer). It would be charged by the photocopying or printing number that  showed on the meter. According to the service contract between the company and supplier, the price of the  colorful was 15 times of that of the black and white. Under normal circumstances, as long as there was one  character of colorful in email or text file, the whole would be charged at the colorful price. Through  controlling the number of photocopies, while setting the computers photocopy mode as gray-scale printing  and controlling color printing, the company has made 50% decrease in color photocopying charge and 17%  in black and white photocopying.   (10) Fine management, cost reduction. COSCO Shipbuilding has continuously constructed 10000 TEU  container ships since 2008. Through improving installation process and residential wiring method, each  vessel has been reduced by 2000 working hours, annual cost reduced by 540, 000 yuan; through the  production of adsorption magnet, the position problem of small-bore tube has been resolved, and thus the  annual cost has been reduced by 90, 000 yuan.   3. Salaries and welfares of employees  All companies of COSCO Group have established different forms of salary and welfare systems in  accordance with the national laws, regulations and related polices and in combination with practices of the  industry and enterprises, protecting basic rights and interests of employees.   While gaining economic growth, all units of COSCO Group have increased the salaries and welfares of  employees stably, improving employees recognition on the enterprise and enhancing the cohesion.   COSCO Group bought various social insurances for its employees in accordance with the laws, covering  items such as endowment, medical, work injury, maternity, employment issuances and housing funds,  ensuring legal rights and interests of employees.  In 2008, basic endowment insurance fees paid for COSCO Groups employees reached RMB 94.3254  million, up 16% year-on-year. Among the basic endowment insurance fees paid in 2008, 20% were paid by  COSCO Group, while 8% were paid by employees.   So far, all companies affiliated to COSCO Group had attended the basic endowment insurance plan  according to the regulations.   Besides aforesaid social insurances, COSCO Group also established supplementary medical insurance and  work injury insurance for all its employees, and continued to promote enterprise annuity work. So far, the  detailed implementation plans for annuity had been approved by the State-owned Assets Supervision and  Administration Commission and was reported to the Department of Human Resources and Social Security  to keep a record. Currently, the plan was in implementation stage.   4. Payment to capital providers   In 2008, profits   generated by China COSCO ranked top among the central enterprises which under the  jurisdiction of the Sate Assets Supervision and Administration Commission. After being awarded the  A-class evaluation by the SASAC in its three-year term in 2007, in 2008, China COSCO once again  became the A-class enterprise awarded by SASAC, which is the five consecutive A-class rating of China  COSCO.   Since 2004, COSCO Groups profits had exceeded 10 billion yuan for five years in a row. In 2008, the  
 88 shipping industry encountered global financial crisis and shipping market was in sharp downturn in second  half of 2008. Despite of this, profits of COSCO Group has achieved outstanding operational performance,  with profits exceeded 10 billion yuan again. This is a full manifestation to COSCO Groups operational  concept of giving best returns to shareholders and offering optimized services to customers.   Table for total profits of COSCO Group in past six years  Indicator/Year  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  Profits realized  (RMB 10,000)  189,481  1,217,889  2,007,100  1,504,100  3,405,542  1,740,386   In order to meet the requirements of capital market, eight listed companies of COSCO Group home and   abroad further improved related systems and perfected the governance structure and mechanism of the  companies. In 2007, listed companies of COSCO Group achieved good results, performing well in places  where they listed.   China COSCO has achieved the good performance of social contribution 2 yuan per share in 2008. Social  contribution per share was in accordance with the requirement of Strengthening Listed Company Social  Responsibility and Commitment <Shanghai Stock Exchange Listed Companies Information Release  Guide> Notice, based on the basic earnings per share the company created for its shareholders, added the  annual tax the company created for the state, the wages paid for its staffs, the interests paid for banks and  other creditors, the donation of the company and the value amount the company created for other relevant  stakeholders, deducted other social costs caused by environmental pollution hence formed the social  contribution per share the company created for the society. It helped public get a more comprehensive  understanding of the real value the company created for its shareholders, employees, customers, creditors,  communities and the whole society.   China COSCO ranked the fourth in 2007 Annual Assessment of Global Shipping Companies that hosted  and reported in July 2008 by Marine Money Magazine. China COSCO got the first place among large  shipping companies and its return to shareholders ranked the very first.  In 2008 Chinas Listed Companies Competitive Evaluation and 2008 Chinas Overseas Listed  Companies Competitiveness Evaluation that jointly published by China Academy of Social Sciences  Industrial Economy Institute and China Business Media Corporation, China COSCO ranked among the top  10 among the companies listed in Hong Kong, while also being awarded the The Most Competitive  Companies in Hong Kong.  In The First Chinas Capital Model Forum-2007 100 China Listed Companies Value Selection that  jointly held by the national well-known assess company, China United Assets Appraisal Co., Ltd and  Financial Times in July 2007, China COSCO ranked the third position.                     Both China COSCO and COSCO Shipping were selection among the The 100 Annual China A-share  Companies with the best investor relation management that jointly selected by Shanghai Stock Exchange,  Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Chinas Listed Companies Investor Relations and Management Research  Center. China COSCO was also awarded The Best IR Home prize.            
 89 China COSCO ranked the third among 2008 100 A-share Listed  Companies with Best Management.   China COSCO and COSCO Shipping was awarded The Best Board  of Directors Prize in the fifth Golden Round Table Award that held  by The Board Magazine.   The Board of Director of China COSCO has been awarded 2008  Annual Outstanding Board of Director-Listed Companies (Hong  Kong Stock Exchange-Non-Hang Seng Index Constituent Stocks)  Board of Directors Award; Chairman Wei Jiafu has been awarded  the 2008 Annual Outstanding Board of Director-Listed Companies  (Hong Kong Stock Exchange-Non-Hang Seng Index Constituent  Stocks) Executive Director Award.  China COSCO International ranked the top 5 in 2009 Investor.  The Board of Director of China COSCO has been awarded  Outstanding Board of Director of 2008 Listed Companies (Hong  Kong Stock Exchange-Non-Hang Seng Index Constituent Stocks)  Group Board of Directors Award held by Hong Kong Institute of  Board of Directors; at the mean time, China COSCO International  former Vice-Chairman and Executive Director Mr. Liu Guoyuan was  awarded Outstanding Director prize.   China COSCO listed company indicator (by Dec.31, 2009) (data to be modified)  Company  Listing  place  Total  market  value  Share  proportio n  Market  value  calculated  by share  proportio n(RMB  100  million)  ROE on  net assets  (%)  Dividend  distribute d  Dividend  per share  at  end-perio d  EPS  China cosco  (H-share)  Hong  Kong  HKD 13.6  billion  53.57 64 20.79 RMB  2962.72  million RMB 0.29  RMB 1.06 China cosco  (A-share)  Shang Hai  RMB 58.4  billion  53.57 313   COSCO  Pacific  Hong  Kong  HKD 17.5  billion  50.96 80 10.57 USD  31.03  million USD  0.01382  USD  0.12244 COSCO  International  Hong  Kong  HKD 11.3  billion  59.6 12 9.47 HKD  109.38  million HKD  0.074  HKD  0.3318 COSCO  Investment  Singap ore  SGD  2.3  billion  53.35 60 26.08 SGD  156.75  million SGD 0.07  SGD  0.135 COSCO  Shipping  Shang Hai  RMB  8.387  billion  53.06 44.50 33.17 2008 RMB  262.08  million RMB 0.20  RMB 1.11 
 90 COSCO  Shipping  shenzh en   RMB  16.5  billion  16.23 27 10.48 RMB  399.36  million RMB 0.15  RMB 0.53 China  Merchants  Banks  (A-share)  shangs hai  RMB  146.4  billion  6.44 94 24.51 RMB  1470.72  million RMB 0.10  RMB 1.43 China  Merchants  Banks  (H-share)  Hong  Kong  HKD 32.3  billion  6.44 18   Sino-Ocean  Hong  Kong  HKD 10.4  billion  20.77 18 8.12 RMB  446.86  million HKD 0.10  RMB 0.31 Total market  value      709     5. Payment to the Government  While China COSCO Group maintained its good operation efficiency, in 2008, tax paid by China COSCO  amounted to 10,797.33 million yuan. China COSCO ranked the first in tax payment in the industry.   Indicator/Year  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  Total tax payment  (RMB 10,000)  106,064  181,792 327,812 578,271 523,653 865,959  1,079,733   6. Social investments and inputs  (1) The establishment of charity foundations; commitment to social responsibility   COSCO Charity Foundation, founded by China COSCO in 2005, is the first non-public offering, non-profit  earning charity foundation that founded by state-owned enterprise. The found of COSCO Charity  Foundation marked that China COSCO is to initiatively and actively shoulder and fulfill their social  responsibilities and take this target into enterprise development strategy hence build up the enterprise  responsibility system with fulfilling economic, environmental and social responsibilities as its main  contents.   COSCO Charity Foundation aimed at changing COSCOs social responsibility action into rule-based,  standardized, specialized and day-to-day enterprise behavior. It provided a good operation platform for the  enterprise to fulfill its social responsibilities.   COSCO Charity Foundation has been hard working towards institutionalized and standardized construction.  It has committed to the development and refinement of fund management and fund use standard, scientific  management of social investment projects, rational use of social investment funds. It has also given full  play to the positive role of social investment so as to achieve centralized management of the social  investment funds and investment projects of all members and units.   COSCO Charity Foundation adhered to Carrying forward the national spirit, dedicating COSCO LOVE,  supporting public welfare and promoting social harmony and development. It has carried out a series of  social relief activities in support of the people suffering from poverty, disaster, disability and homelessness.  It also has given assistance to medical and education affairs. In accordance with COSCO Charity  Foundation 2008 Work Guideline, through rigorous research and feasibility analysis, COSCO Charity  Foundation has carried out 40 projects in 2008, the projects funds amounted to 141.25 million yuan.     
 91 COSCO Charity Foundation obtained 3A-class rating of the Ministry  of Civil Affairs, which is so far the best result achieved by enterprise  foundation. China COSCO has consecutively received China Charity  Award-the most caring domestic enterprise Award and China  Charity Award-Special Contribution Award by the Ministry of Civil  Affairs in 2007 and 2008. China Charity Award is the highest  government charity awards in recognition of the agencies, institutions  and individuals which have made outstanding contributions in  education, medical care, disaster rescue, poverty relief, environmental  protection and supports in areas such as culture and arts. COSCO s  award-winning showed that COSCO s efforts in charity affairs has  been fully endorsed and approved by the government and community.  (2) Care about people's life and pay back to the society  COSCO Group actively shoulders social responsibilities, supports social investment activities, cares about  people's life and pays back to the society. Over a long period of time, all companies affiliated to COSCO  Group have been engaged in social investment, charity and public welfare activities actively while focusing  on its own development.  In 2008, COSCO Group, through COSCO Charity Foundation, has donated a total of 61.4235 million yuan  to social projects, including 60.2968 million yuan of cashes and 1.1267 million yuan of materials (see table  below).  Indicator/Year  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  Investment capitals provided for social  projects (RMB 10,000)  866.1 584.37 3,794.63 3,355.68  5,875.96  614235                               January 2008, the rare snowstorm hit Chinas southern area,  COSCO Charity Foundation donated 10 million yuan to the  disaster area in order to support disaster relief work and  improve the basic living condition of those suffered from  disaster.  March 2008, Panama Maritime University was burned. COSCO  Panama Branch donated 29, 000 US dollars for the construction  of school building damaged by fire.   On March 13, COSCO Charity Foundation allocated its first donation 10 million yuan for Sichuan  government in support of disaster assistance and rescue work. This donation was sent in 18 hours after the  earthquake.   In addition, COSCO Charity Foundation has donated 10 million yuan for China Red Cross 5.12  Post-disaster Reconstruction Assistance Central Enterprise Fund through SASAC mainly for the  
 92 post-disaster reconstruction work of central enterprises; donated 1 million yuan for Oriental Electric  Company; donated 41.75 million yuan for the reconstruction of Sichuan Chengdu Fengzhou Cifeng School  for teaching equipment purchase; donated 6.9 million yuan purchased tents as transitional housing for the  schools in serious disaster areas in southern Gansu; donated 1.35 million yuan for the Ministry of Civil  Affairs for the configuration prosthetics and other rehabilitation services for 50 Disaster Relief Juvenile  and Disaster Relief Outstanding Juvenile; donated 8.2 million yuan for southern Gansu Chengxain  government for teaching building reconstruction of Xiguan Primary School. At the meantime, COSCO  Charity Foundation and Sina.com jointly launched the Green Ribbon activity, which opened a green  channel between Beijing and Shifang for disaster relief supplies. Disaster relief materials have been sent  twice to the disaster area and made nearly kilometer trip. At the same time, to meet the actual needs of the  disaster areas, COSCO Charity Foundation purchased 100, 000 yuan shortage disaster goods and sent to the  disaster area. COSCO logistics transport supply fleet has been awarded the 2008 Disaster Relief  Outstanding Group by SASAC and has been granted The Outstanding Disaster Relief Group in National  Transport Sector by the Department of Transportation.   After the big earthquake in Wenchuan, COSCO s overseas business partners all expressed their concern  and sympathy for people in disaster areas by donation through COSCO Charity Foundation. For instance,  Germany Northern Assets Company donated 250, 000 million dollars; business partner form the United  Arab Emirates Dubai donated 100, 000 million dollars; partner from Taiwan contributed 100, 000 million  dollars; Japan Lingjiang Co., Ltd donated 1 million Yen, Japan Zhenghe Co., Ltd donated 300, 000 Yen. In  the anti-earthquake and disaster-relief process, COSCO Charity Foundation had donated a total of 83.12  million yuan, all of which were used for anti-earthquake and disaster-relief work and had been distributed  to specific donation projects.   On May 12, 2009, China Charity Federation and Beichuan  Government jointly held Boundless Love-5.12 Earthquake Relief  Anniversary Activity in the Great Hall of People in Beijing. In  view of the great contribution China COSCO made in 5.12  disaster relief, China Charity Federation granted COSCO  National Charity Unit. COSCO Chairman Wei Jiafu has been  granted the title of Charity Ambassador. Vice-Chairman of the  CPPCC National Committee Luo Fuhe granted awards for China  COSCO.  Before award granting activity, COSCO leaders and government  officials from Beichuan held a discussion. COSCO Charity  Foundation again donated 500,000 yuan through China Charity  Federation for reconstruction assistance for Sichuan disaster  areas.   (3) All staff participation  The social responsibility senses and obligations of employees are important bases for an enterprise to  effectively shoulder its social responsibilities. Employees of COSCO Group actively took part in social  public welfare activities and performed corporate social responsibilities. Individual donations made by  employees had increased year by year. In 2008, total donations made by employees of COSCO Group to  disaster-stricken areas, poverty-stricken areas and rural areas totaled RMB 24.1055 million.   Indicator/Year  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  Personal contributions (RMB 10,000)  41.43  54.95  110.78  111.45  269.39  2410.55  Care and love exists regardless the rigorous and cruel snow. Early in 2008, a rare snowstorm swept through  southern China, staffs from COSCO Shipping Company donated 42,000 yuan for passengers stranded in  Guangzhou Railway Station due to snowstorm. Food and cloth has been timely delivered to the hands of  stranded passengers through the Red Cross Society of Yuexiu District.   Support those in difficulties. May 12, 2008, right after the happen of Sichuan Wenchuan earthquake, all  employees of COSCO Group fulfilled their social responsibilities, took immediate action, actively  participated in donation activity and showed sympathy and concern to the people in disaster areas. 15, 000  
 93 employees from COSCO Logistics System donated a total number of 2.89 million yuan for Sichuan  earthquake disaster area. 29 Crews from COSCO Xiamen The Temple Sea donated 9,150 yuan. Three  interns who have only worked for one month also contributed their parts.   Donating one-day salary, offering a loving heart. One-day Donation activity is an important method and  good tradition that formed by COSCO, aiming at expressing the concerns and sympathies to the social  weak group. In 2008, a total number of 450 workers from COSCO Logistics participated in One-day  Donation and donation reached a total of 49.050 yuan.   Establishing Women Civilization Group for assistance and support. COSCO Dalian Finance Department  Accounting Branch recently worked in pairs with Wandian City Nachun Village. In 2008, it has donated  578 agricultural science, technology and literature books and more than 100 pieces of clothing.   (4) Saving festival fess to support poor students   During the 15th establishment anniversary of COSCO Xiamen, COSCO Xiamen has taken 500,000 yuan  from its original planned expenditure for anniversary celebration and made its donation through COSCO  Charity Foundation. All the donated funds have been used to pay tuition fees and living expenses for 100  high school graduates who have been admitted by universities but seriously suffered from poverty.   (5) Hold high the banner of international humanitarian   Employees of COSCO Group have carried forward the international humanitarian spirit. At a critical time  when life and property safety of other ships were seriously threatened, they put people first and spared no  efforts to rescue others' life and properties, showing excellent occupational quality and representing the  noble sentiment of crews of COSCO Group.  On July 29, 2008, COSCO Hong Kong The Pacific carried steel taking its 29th voyage from Australia  Port Kembla to Kalama in the United States. The Pacific has received emergent telex from Australian  Assistance Center in Australia Coral Sea. An Australian small yacht in trouble issued distress signal for  help. The Pacific immediately studied aid program proposal, inspected and prepared machinery  equipment, rescue boats, charge cable, charge cable guns, stretchers, medicine and so on. Overcoming large  waves, The Pacific successfully rescued two people in distress.   On Nov. 23, COSCO Hong Kong The Wealthy rescued a capsized boat in strong storms in Cristobal. Six  fishermen survived.   (6) In support of Olympics, volunteer service   Between July 20 to August 26, 2008, 13 employees from COSCO  Beijing participated driving volunteer services of Beijing Olympics; in  addition to this, 5 staffs from COSCO attended volunteer service work  of Shanghai sub-division; employees from COSCO Bulk Carrier,  COSCO Qingdao, COSCO Guangzhou also participated in Olympics  volunteer services works in various forms. China COSCO has been  awarded Outstanding Volunteer Service Organization by Olympic  Games Organizing Committee and Communist Youth League Central  Committee. 19 volunteers from China COSCO have been awarded  Outstanding Volunteers.   During the first period of Olympic Games Regatta Competition, Qingdao water area suffered from severe  moss disaster. COSCO Qingdao purchased daily necessities, food, drink in a total sum of 23, 000 yuan and  paid visit to the officers and soldiers responsible for cleaning up moss.   (7) Aid to Tibet and Poverty Relief  COSCO Group attached great importance to aid to Tibet and poverty relief work. In perspective of the  present reality of designated areas, including Lhorong County of Tibet, Yanshan County and Haixing  County of Hebei Province, COSCO Group gave full play to its corporate advantages, and adhered to the  principles of improving the production and living conditions of poor farmers and herdsmen and enhancing  and hematopoietic function of poverty-stricken areas. The Group continued to increase its efforts to  provide aid to Tibet and to alleviate poverty. In 2008, COSCO Group invested a total of RMB 17.95  million in aid to Tibet and poverty relief, among which RMB 12 million was allocated to Lhorong County,  
 94 RMB 3 million to Yanshan County and RMB 2.95 million to Haixing County.   In Lhorong County, COSCO Group aided the construction of a number of projects, including the tsamba  processing plant, the Shakang and Jiariza housing project for farmers and herdsmen, the Shakang COSCO  Avenue, the water purification project, the Lhorong model home for the elderly, and 9 village committees  at grass-roots level. The group also assisted in the training of 74 cadres at grass-roots level and village  teachers, and collected RMB 200,000 for poverty fund. The Lhorong tsamba processing plant, built with  the help of COSCO Group, boasts an annual production capacity of up to 400,000 Jin, amounting to RMB  1.2 million. The income of employees has increased by an average of RMB 9,800. About 300 households  in 4 villages and towns have benefited directly from the processing plant, and the average household  income is expected to increase RMB 1,450. The barley industry in 7 villages and towns in the county is  also promoted.                   COSCO Group assists in the building of Shakang Town, Lhorong Old Peoples Home, Jiarizha COSCO  New Village, and Lhorong Science and Education Center  In Yanshan County and Haixing County, COSCO Groups poverty  relief and development projects were focused on the construction of  rural infrastructure, agriculture industrialization, education, health  care, labor export and technology training. The company assisted in  the building of the teaching building of Yanshan Middle School, the  library, students dining hall and dormitory of Haixing Middle  School, 7 model villages for the whole village promotion  initiative, tarred roads for 14 villages, clean water facilities for 6  villages, and farmland capital construction for 3 villages. Besides,   COSCO Group purchased a number of advanced medical equipments, including Kodak CR850 system,  built 32 jujube drying rooms, and 3 model breeding gardens of agriculture industrialization. A total of 10  training courses about livestock cultivation and aquiculture were held, providing trainings for 1,800 people.  The company also recruited 72 new contract shipmen from the county.   COSCO Groups aid to Tibet and poverty alleviation work have greatly improved the living conditions of  people in poverty-stricken areas, and achieved remarkable economic and social benefits. Tibets governor  Qiangba Puncog and other leaders highly appreciated the work of COSCO Group during their in-depth visit  to Lhorong County. COSCO Groups work in Tibet has been reported or reprinted by dozens of media,  including Xinhuanet, Peoples Daily Online, Tibet Communication and Tibet Daily published by the Party  Committee Office of the Tibetan Autonomous Region, China Project Management Online, Journal to Aid  Tibet, and ZGYZ.net, etc. COSCO Groups cadres accredited to Yanshan and Xinghai Counties were  awarded Advanced Individuals in Poverty Alleviation by the provincial party committee and government of  Hebei Province and municipal party committee and government of Cangzhou City, and the titles of  Outstanding Party Members by the party committees of Yanshan County and Haixing County.   (II) Financial inputs for climate changes  The global environment issue caused by climate changes has gradually raised concerns of all circles of the  world and directly affected the risk and financial inputs of COSCO Group. Its main influences are as  follows:   (1) Risks caused by climate changes  Climate changes affected the typhoon occurrence period, moving path and intensity changes, these, in  addition with increase of weathers with poor visibility, threaten shipping safety of COSCO Group's ships in  
 95 various sea areas.  Increase of typhoons and bad weathers need more labors and materials from the bank to guide safe shipping  of vessels. In the meantime, as anti-typhoons and bad visibility affect the arrangements in and out the port,  increase shipping time of vessels and non-productive berthing time at port  The international community and port countries had formulated new conventions, rules and regulations to  tackle with the influences of climate changes, which bring new risks to COSCO Group.  (2) Financial influences of climate changes on COSCO Group  In order to prevent and fight against the possible damage caused by typhoons, COSCO Group input more  human resources and materials into the organization establishment, shore-based shifts, command and  coordination. Typhoons also led to the increase in the sailing time and distance as well as the delay in the  schedules. 99 tropical cyclones (including TD) have been generated in the worldwide scale in 2008. 490  ships of China COSCO have been affected, increased by 24% from 395 in 2007, loss of shipping schedule  amounted to 1310.4 hours; 61 ships of COSCO Dalian have been affected, loss of shipping schedule  amounted to 981.12 hours.  Restricted by poor visibility, many ports have taken entry and departure prohibition measures in order to  protect ship security during port time therefore the non-productive time of COSCO fleet in Hong Kong port  got increased.   To relieve common global environmental pressure, reduce emission and save energy, in advocacy of  Chinese governments call for energy-saving emission reduction, China COSCO increased material and  financial resources into energy-saving and emission reduction research and relevant equipment  improvement, so as to save energy and reduce emission; China COSCO also invested funds in operating  quality, environment and occupational health safety management network, laid security environment  network and occupational health security network; established effective training mechanism and launched  relevant knowledge popularization and operation skills training; enhanced employees environmental  awareness and management capabilities, thus additional cost has been increased.   From 2005 to the end of 2008, China COSCO has invested 56.28 million yuan using for improvement of  ship master cylinder oil supply system, installation of electronic control device cylinder petrol supply  system; invested 9.55 million yuan for installation of homogeneous fuel equipment; in addition, in order to  enhance fuel combustion efficiency and reduce emissions, China COSCO invested funds to purchase fuel  additives and grinding machine, oil heaters, navigation controller and improve hull drag reduction  technology, additional capital investment has been increased.   In order to deal with climate changes, the international community had revised the international  conventions, resulting in increase of management costs and equipment expenses of COSCO Group. In 2008,  COSCO Group adopted 107,592 tons of low-Sulphur fuel with the sulphur content of 1.5%m/m in a bid to  satisfy the requirements of MARPOL Appendix VI and reduce emission of ships, resulting in increase of  costs by RMB 11.82 million.  COSCO Group had responded to preventative measures taken by port countries and coastal countries to  deal with climate changes. For instance, COSCO Group had actively responded to the "Green Ship Flag"  advocated by California in US, requiring ships to reduce the speed in advance before sailing into or  departing from the ports. COSCO Group's ships sail into and depart from ports at a speed lower than 12  nautical miles per hour and use the light oil-based fuels with less sulfur content instead of heavy oil in a bid  to alleviate air pollution. As the price of the light oil is 1.8 times of that of heavy oil, COSCO Group  needed to pay more when buying light oil-based fuels for ships.  To meet the air emission standards of shipyard area and community, reduce emissions so as to reduce the  impact on local community, China COSCO Shipbuilding Industry invested funds in technology and  equipment update. Welding Machine Technology Improvement and Fan Technology Improvement of  COSCO Shanghai Shipyard, electricity system improvement project are the two examples among them.   (III) Fixed welfare plan  Retirement life guarantee is a main factor considered by all employees when selecting their jobs. Proper  arrangement of retirement pension can solve the worries of employees and is favorable for attracting and  
 96 keeping stable employees' team.  (1) COSCO Group has attached great importance to fixed welfare plan for employees and paid endowment  insurances for every employee according to policies of the State and local employees. COSCO Group  calculated the budget for endowment insurances by 20% of total salaries of employees and paid the  endowment insurances monthly to the social insurance institutes of the State.  (2) According to related policies of the State and local governments, employees can enjoy endowment  insurances and medical insurance treatments when they reach legal retirement age. COSCO Group  calculated and paid pensions for retired employees according to policies of the State and local governments,  and paid the pensions to retired employees in full amount on time, ensuring the legal rights and interests of  retired employees.  At the end of 2008, total number of retired employees of COSCO Group reached 26,356 (please refer to  table below).  COSCO Group has set up a special institute, dispatched special personnel and allocated special expenditure  to provide services for retired employees, ensuring that all retired employees can enjoy pensions when they  are old and can have medical treatment when they are ill.  COSCO Group offered related treatment to retired employees according to the State's policies on  retirement.  On important holidays, holiday subsidy to retired employees will be issued, allowing them to enjoy the  humanistic cares of COSCO Group.  Year  Number of new retired  employees in the year  Number of new retired  employees as of the year end  2004  2851  16944  2005  2818  19559  2006  2864  22235  2007  2604  24665  2008  1858  26356  (IV) Financial supports provided by the Government  China COSCO s COSCO Ship and Goods Transport Online Monitoring System and COSCO Ship  Physical Purification Water Treatment Technology were included in the national science support projects  by the National Ministry of Science and Technology. The two projects were given financial support of 8  million yuan and 7.7 million yuan respectively.   (V) Minimum salary and comparison with the standards  COSCO Group strictly implemented the salary system of the State and local governments to ensure that  salaries of employees are higher than the minimum salary level released by the Government. Minimum  salaries of shore-based employees of all companies of COSCO Group are higher than the minimum salary  levels regulated by local governments.  In March 2007, COSCO Group adjusted the salaries of crews based on the principles of internationalization,  marketization, transparency and simplification, greatly improving the salaries and treatments of crews.  Under the circumstances that shipping market has seriously affected by the financial crisis in the second  half of 2008, China COSCO maintained and even increased the crews wages regardless the deterioration  of shipping market.         
 97 (VI) Procurement and supplier  1. COSCO Group has been insisting on establishing mutual-beneficiary relationships with suppliers. By  establishing the mutual-beneficiary relationships with suppliers, it has enhanced the value creation ability  of all companies and reduced operational risk. COSCO Group evaluated key suppliers each year to select  qualified suppliers based on comprehensive evaluation in terms of quality guarantee, service, price and  reputation. Shipping, logistics, ship-building/ship-repairing companies had established supplier control  procedures in the management system documents, evaluated and selected suppliers from qualified suppliers  of COSCO Group headquarters and keep the group well informed of performances of suppliers. The  evaluation, selection and management of suppliers bring positive influences in ensuring the quality,  controlling the prices and optimizing the services. These also allowed COSCO Group to establish  mutual-beneficiary supplying relationships with suppliers, so as to effectively reduce the costs and  operational risks.  2. COSCO Group adopted centralized procurement system on ship fuels. In 2008, the centralized  procurement volume of fuels reached 3.89 million tons, the total fuel costs reached 2.01 billion dollars, and  the average unit price reached USD 518.19 dollars per ton. Through scale operation of merchandise on  hands and futures and by deducing value-keeping expense of 57,296,700 dollars of trans-year  value-keeping products of 50,000 tons, a total of 42,006,800 dollars of costs were saved, and fuel cost was  reduced by 10.8 dollars per ton.   (VII) COSCO Group's procedures of employing local employees in important operation regions and  the proportion of local senior executives  The recruitment of local residents as members of its top management and accommodation of local people  can increase human capitals of COSCO Group, bring economic benefits to local society and improve the  group's ability to understand local demands.  COSCO Group implements the jurisdictional management mode for its overseas companies, and employs  local people according to laws and regulations of the places where overseas companies are located. Except  for a few of top executives dispatched by COSCO, most members of intermediate and top management  teams are employed locally. In 2008, China COSCO has employed 4188 foreign employees, accounting  for6.19% of the total.  Number of recruited foreign workers from 2004-2008  Year  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  Total number of foreign employees(people)  3989  3877  4048  3752  4188  (VIII) Infrastructure investment and services for public welfares by providing materials or free  professional services through commercial activities, and the influences  Besides economic value created and distributed, COSCO Group also attached great importance to  investment in infrastructure construction for public welfare.  1. In order to better train crews, improve occupational quality of crews, promote healthy development of  COSCO Group's shipping business and provide excellent crews for shipping industry, COSCO Group  created the Qingdao Ocean Shipping Mariners College in 1976. So far, the Qingdao Ocean Shipping  Mariners College has developed into a senior shipping college for bachelor's degree education, diploma  education and continued education. With a total floor area of 277,000 square meters and the total  construction area of 164,300 square meters, the Qingdao Ocean Shipping Mariners College is China's  largest training base for working crews and implemented about 80 national training projects.  In order to improve campus security management facilities, Qingdao Ocean Shipping Mariners College  invested 700, 000 yuan in 2008 for the completion of campus security monitoring system construction; it  also has invested 30,000 to construct 6 hydrants on corresponding location of student apartments and  teaching building. Fire hose was also equipped in order to eliminate potential dangers.  2. To support the construction and development of Shanghai Maritime University and further strengthen  the industrial, academic and researching communication and cooperation among higher education  institutions,     
 98 China COSCO donated 50 million yuan for Shanghai Maritime  University for the construction of universitys graphic information  center. To express their appreciation to China COSCO, Shanghai  Maritime University named its graphic information center in  Lingang campus as COSCO library.   3. To sponsor Zhoushan basic education, China COSCO donated 8 million yuan to Zhoushan Putuo District  Charity Federation for the teaching building construction of Liuhengdao Center Primary School.   4. Right after the happening of Sichuan Wenchuan earthquake, China COSCO devoted great human  resources, free equipment and vehicles to support the transportation and storage of disaster relief goods,  China COSCO also set up a disaster relief goods distribution center with free warehouses and management  staff. China COSCO also opened green channel providing free shipping and land transportation for the  disaster relief goods provided by Tai royal family and the Japanese non-governmental organizations.  During the period of rescuing Tangjiashan landslide lake, China COSCO emergently sent d 6 containers  with emergency supplies by air to Tangjiashan. In addition, China COSCO also freely provided 59  containers to Sichuan and Gansu disaster areas. The containers have been converted into post business and  school temporary accommodations.                 Photo caption: May 28, China COSCO containers emergently rushed to Sichuan earthquake disaster area  Tangjiashan Landslide Lake rescue site.  5. In early January 2008, southern China, especially the disaster affected areas frequently ran out of  electricity supply, nearly one hundred power plants coal storage reached alarm level, power plant coal  storage was only half of the normal level. Facing the grim disaster situation in southern China, China  COSCOs shipping subsidiaries performed social responsibility allocating ships to participate in electricity  and coal transport. COSCO Bulk Carrier emergently allocated ships from international route serving for  domestic coal transportation. About 10 vessels have been devoted to electricity and coal transportation and  transportation capacity reached 480, 000 DWT. The self-owned ship The Yuqihai and the chartered ship  The Hebei Solidarity  from COSCO Guangzhou conducted three routes of coal transportation work and  delivered a total of 170,000 tons of coal.   6. In order to assure a successful Olympics sailing competition, provincial government allocated more than  1,200 various ships devoting to the moss clean-up of Qingdaos water area. To ensure the timely and  effectively diesel supply for the week in Qingdao water areas, The Qingyou 6 and The Qingyou 7have  been sent out on standby to ensure 24-hour diesel supply so as to support the moss clean-up work, which  has been highly praised by the emergency command.   (IX) Important indirect economical influences  1. COSCO Group's input on technology R&D and achievements  (1) Enterprise information is to establish modern information network system with modern management  science and information technology, so that all aspects of enterprise management activities, through fast  flow of information and effective services, can achieve the integration of funds, logistics, work flow and  information flow hence the optimal distribution of resources, the management efficiency and level thereby  the improvement of economic efficiency and core competitiveness of the enterprise. Enterprise information  is plays an important role in improving enterprises management level.   Under the rapid global development of economy and information technology, information is the key factor  to the enterprises success, as well as an important premise for cross-regions, cross-industries and  cross-borders operation.   In order to better integrate into business transformation and upgrading, China COSCO positively embraced  
 99 the new challenges of economic globalization and information globalization, continuously strengthening  the supporting of information to enterprise competitiveness.     Gradually increased the input in enterprise information construction China COSCO invested 1.8338  billion yuan in enterprise information technology construction. Automation office system has been  introduced into major shipping, logistics and ship repair companies, and in accordance with the nature  of the company, either self-development or the instruction of information system has been brought in,  which greatly improved working efficiency and achieved information sharing.     Shipping companies put investment into the construction of ship-shore  electronic information and  communication platform, including machine information system, shipping management system and  Chinese ship-to-shore Email communication system. COSCO Logistics and COSCO Shipping has  established customer service information system; based on the introduction and application of the  established computer-aided design production management platform, and Inteliship, Tribon, Napa and  other international advanced professionally designed software, COSCO Shipyard launched the  enterprise resource application system ERP project.  Based on Production and Operation Management Software, COSCO Bulk established companys  core business operation platform, constantly improved and optimized the functions of Crew  Management System (CSIS), continuously optimized and promoted SMIS system, gradually  established enterprise data warehousing, which has laid a solid foundation for business intelligence  (BI), initially set up COSCO Bulk information security management system, established and gradually  optimized unified information security standards.   COSCO Dalian strengthened its input in IT area. It has invested 10.27 million yuan, completed the  unification of phase I projector of ship-shore information system, AMOS2 system and shipping  information system, the three key IT construction tasks. Meanwhile, COSCO Dalian also developed  the phase II project of the maintenance cost auditing system, introduced new electronic map system,  started crew wage system improvement project and global navigation monitoring system project.   COSCO Guangzhou successfully completed the general upgrading work of companys network switch  machine hence the companys network has been increased to gigabit Ethernet network which has built  a high scalability, high performance, high security, good manageability while integrated data, voice  and video applications network system. COSCO Guangzhou launched a number of new information  services to enhance work efficiency, such as computer operator (telephone automatic switching,  message leaving), desktop fax services (computer receiving, sending and fax managing), cell phone  email business (receiving company email via cell phone) and so on.   In the 2007 Central enterprises information level evaluation that reported by SASAC of the State  Council on Oct. 16, 2008, China COSCO and other 10 enterprises have been rated as A class.   In the appraisal of top 500 Chinese enterprises for informationization organized by the National  Informationization Evaluation Center, COSCO Group continued to rank the 1st among enterprises in  the industry. COSCO Group headquarters ranked the 2nd in top 500 Chinese enterprises for  informationization, and Li Jianhong, Vice President and CIO of COSCO Group, won the annual  leadership award for corporate informationization. Besides, COSCON ranked the 19th, COSCO Bulk  ranked the 41st, COSCO Guangzhou ranked the 105th and COSCO Shipyard ranked the 159th.  COSCO Group headquarters and COSCON, COSCO Bulk and COSCO Shipyard were also awarded  the Group Informationization Achievement Award, Best IT Management, Excellent  Informationization Construction Team Award and Best ERP Application Award.                     
 100 (2) COSCO Group has attached great importance to scientific R&D and has established technical and R&D  centers, which are responsible for organization, implementation and management of scientific R&D work  of the group. Since 2003, the number of scientific research projects had increased year-on-year. In 2008,  COSCO Group kicked off a total of 263 scientific research projects, with total expenditure of RMB  1.01917 billion, up 83% year-on-year. COSCO Groups scientific research inputs and achievements are as  follows:  Indicator/Year  2004  2005 2006  2007  2008  Expenses on scientific and technological activities   (RMB 10,000)  38,565.70 20,378 49,680.03  55,769.2  101,917 Expenses on researches and experiments development   (RMB 10,000)  33,507  17,242 27,634.02  28,261.1  37,701.39 Total number of scientific and technological projects  152  137  137  257  263  Number of foreign cooperation projects  17  25  37  30  45  Number of scientific and technological awards received  3  2  2  2  3    China COSCO has invested 16 million yuan in its COSCO Ship and Goods Transportation Online  Monitoring System project (shortened as SCOM System hereafter), in addition, this project has won  financial support of 8 million yuan from the national science and technology project support plan from  the Ministry of Science and Technology. This project was mainly for heterogeneous polymorphic data  collection and standardization transformation, navigation situation modeling, marine emergency swift  response and warning, task-oriented ship scheduling, user-oriented personalized service and other key  technologies. This project was to carry out system researches in ship-borne data acquisition and  processing, shore information monitoring support and ship-shore surveillance systems. The study has  achieved two national patents, seven software project copyrights. Its phase work hadcome to an end by  the end of 2008.    China COSCO has invested 16 million yuan in its COSCO Ship Waster physical Purification  Treatment System, which has also won 7.7 million yuan from the national science and technology  project support plan from the Ministry of Science and Technology. The laboratories research and  development of this project has come to its end.     The Automobile Ship Loading Solution researched and developed by COSCO Guangzhou meets the  advanced international level in shipping industry.     Single Cable Double Hydraulic Remote Control Valve Grab from COSCO Shipyards subsidiary  COSCO Shipyard Tianjin and Self-adjusted Optimum Projection Member from COSCO Shipyard  Guangzhou have been granted utility model patents by the State Intellectual property Office, which  has made a breakthrough in COSCO patent achievement and forwarded a step in enterprise science  and technology innovation.   2. Creation of employment opportunities   China COSCO has created 2730 employment opportunities in 2008.   COSCO Dalians subsidiary Dalian COSCO Plaza Hotel was founded on Nov. 5, 2008. After put into  operation, Dalian COSCO Plaza Hotel created good job opportunities employing 602 people. While the  financial crisis swept around the world and employment situation under unprecedented severe  abnormalities, COSCO shouldered its social responsibility and provided invaluable employment  opportunities for the local labor.        
 102 PartII  Environmental performance indicator and ket report  I. Management measures  1. Objectives and performance  Besides pursuing economic benefits, COSCO Group also shoulders corporate social responsibilities and  performs the environmental protection requirements in Global Compact. COSCO Group has set the  guidelines of environmental protection as comprehensive management, preservation of resources,  environmental protection and has committed to protecting the environment and preserving global  resources, and supporting and participating in ecological protection activities as a social responsibility  undertaker to initiatively improve enterprises environmental protection system. COSCO Group has taken  the safety and the environmental protection as an important part of its commitment. COSCO Group has  strictly implemented rules and regulations regarding environmental protection in domestic laws and  regulations as well as international conventions, actively performed applicable suggesting standards,  decrees and related requirements on environmental protection home and abroad. It has made its  commitments to the United Nations to protect the environment, save global resources and establish a  resource-conservative enterprise. It has adopted technological innovation to protect limited resources and  took effective measures to avoid negative influences on the environment, so as to protect the beautiful  environments that human beings are relying on. In 2008, COSCO Group was free from any environment  pollution accidents and the associated penalties. In the second set of energy-conservation demonstration  projects for traffic industry initiated by the Ministry of Communications in 2008, two projects of COSCO  Group were selected as energy-conservation demonstration projects for traffic industry. COSCO Group was  awarded the environmental protection flags for four successive times in the Green Flag program organized  by the Long Beach Authority of the U.S.   2. Policies and regulations  COSCO Group has formulated the Guiding Opinions for COSCO Group to Build up a Resource-saving  Enterprise and Implement the Global Compact. It requires related department to construct COSCO Group  into a resource-saving enterprise, implement the requirements of Global Compact and fulfill sustainable  development. All companies of COSCO Group have formulated implementation plans and details, and  established corresponding procedures, notices and operating criteria. COSCO Group headquarters has  introduced the IS014000 Environmental Management Systems Standard for the establishment of the  environmental management system and has passed third-party certification. Major subsidiaries companies  of the group also introduced the IS014000 Environmental Management Systems Standard, established and  implemented the environment management system. Some companies have passed the third-party  certifications, while others were organizing the third-party certifications in succession. Meanwhile, all  shipping companies have introduced the International Safety Management Code (ISMC) to establish their  safety management systems. By carrying out corresponding management measures and solutions, COSCO  Group is in compliance with all applicable environment-related international conventions, rules and  Chinese laws & regulations as well as other requirements to prevent damage to the environment.  3. Originations and responsibilities  The Safety Technology Supervision Division is responsible for the environmental protection work of  COSCO Group headquarters. Each subsidiary has set up the administrative unit or specific posts for  environmental protection, which are mainly responsible for tracing and analyzing the environmental  protection trends at home and abroad, researching and stipulating policies and measures related to  environmental protection, supervising and guiding positions at all levels to effectively implement the  solutions related to environmental protection, and dealing with and correcting the deficiencies in  environmental protection work. The groups executive vice president in charge of environmental protection  is responsible for supervision and coordination, and the top executives of subsidiaries are responsible for  supervision and implementation. In respect to environmental protection of ships, the captain is the first  responsible person, and chief engineer officer is the main responsible person. They are tasked with studying  rules of energy conservation and environmental protection work, paying attention to each process of the  energy conservation, establishing related mechanisms and systems, improving the companys energy  conservation and environmental protection management system and establishing and improving the  
 103 incentive mechanisms which are favorable for energy conservation, energy reduction and enhancement of  environmental protection work.   4. Trainings and communications  COSCO Group headquarters brought environmental protection contents into training plans and temporarily  training plans of employees each year through effective operation of quality and environment management  systems, and implemented the training plans via delegated training, the companys organization of trainings  and self-study, etc. Meantime, it also organized knowledge update and management skill trainings for  managing personnel of environmental management system and persons in environmental management  posts, so as to improve the environmental protection awareness and environmental protection management  level of employees. The company uploaded the environment reports and sustainable development reports as  well as environment-related information of COSCO Group headquarters via portal website and WLAN,  allowing employees of the company and the public to know environment-related policies, guidelines and  performances of the company.   5. Supervision and certification  Based on internal and external audit procedures of environmental management system, regular and annual  evaluation procedures and the opinion solicitation from stakeholders, COSCO Group enhanced the  supervision over the environment-related behavior and improved the eficiencies through corrective and  preventative procedures, thus constantly improved the companys environment performances and built a  secure and environment-friendly PDCA recycling management system. COSCO Group headquarters has  established its safety supervisor system to supervise shipping companies environmental management and  ISMC operation. All shipping companies have conducted internal audits for all ships they controlled on  schedule, calculated and analyzed the unqualified items found in the internal audit, found the reasons and  made corrections. In addition, onsite checking is conducted for the ships arriving at overseas ports through  COSCO Groups overseas ship engineering outlets, including the checking on the environmental protection  efforts taken by the ships. COSCO Group headquarters environment management system has passed the  joint certification of DNV and CSS, and certifications for environment management systems of the  subsidiaries are being organized.  Statistical table for certifications of environmental management systems of companies affiliated to  COSCO Group   Company  Environmental management  system  Safety and anti-pollution management  system    Established  Certified  Established  Certified  COSCO Group headquarters      --  --  COSCO Container Lines      --  --  COSCO Bulk          COSCO Guangzhou    --  --  --  COSCO Shipping          COSCO Qingdao    --      COSCO Dalian          COSCO Xiamen          COSCO Hong Kong          COSCO Logistics      --  --  COSCO Shipyard      --  --  COSCO Shipbuilding      --  --  CHIMBUSCO      --  --  Hainan Boao COSCO      --  --  China Ocean Shipping Tally      --  --  COSCO Human  Resources/COSCO Manning      --  --  COSCO Finance    --      Symbol Completed     -- Not available    
 104 II. Performance indicators  1. Raw materials   In order to protect the global resources, COSCO Group has actively reduced the consumption of raw  materials and implemented lean management to maximize the utilization of materials and save resources.  (1) Indirect material usage mainly   due to nature of the business we have engaged, the raw material consumption of COSCO Group is  centralized on ship-building and ship-repairing industries. In 2008, total consumption volume of raw  materials of COSCO Group reached 559,538 tons.  China COSCO has taken measures to promote raw materials conservation: firstly, shipbuilding enterprises  strictly followed design specifications, production order, construction techniques and other technical  standards as well as material consumption calculation system in order to reduce losses and waste, improve  raw material utilization. Shipbuilding steel utilization rate remained 92% in 2008; secondly, extended the  liner material and banding material service period, reduced the use of wood and raised substitution rate;  thirdly, set standard for ship spare parts consumption, made regular assessment and linked the assessment  results with performance so as to achieve the purpose of raw materials saving.   In order to enhance hull steel utilization, when in construction of its 20,000 tons lifting force floating dock,  in comparison of the hull steel utilization of the previous constructed 120, 000 tons lifting force floating  dock, in order to reduce losses and waste, COSCO Shipyard Dalian adhered to the goal of optimize design  qualify, rationally using materials; using raw materials to the maximum scale, reducing waste so as to  improve steel utilization of its 20, 000 tons lifting force floating dock. Through finding the reasons for the  impact on steel utilization, COSCO Shipyard Dalian has focused on the too many detailed design versions  and the unreasonable design. Under the promise of reasonable design, COSCO Shipyard Dalian made  precise layout for panel, reasonably adopted panel, ordered panels in accordance with the location of panel  gap, panel sickness and structural characteristics. Under the circumstances of insufficient panel utilization,  human labor and machine operation was combined. Finally the steal utilization of the 20, 000 tons lifting  force floating dock has been increased by 1% from the previous one, met the requirements.   The table below shows COSCO Groups raw material consumption in the past six years:  (2) Green passport. The world shipbuilding industry is accelerating its ship product structure adjustment  and optimization so as to promote the entire life-cycle green environmental protection from the  construction, operation to dismantling. China COSCO is actively in pursuit of the latest movement and  development of the world shipbuilding industry, devoting to the standards and requirements of green  passport, linear optimization of ship construction, selection of propulsion, power management, conversion  from heavy oil to light oil, host burning efficiency improvement, energy substitution, energy-saving  concern in gas recycling and reusing and the promotion of new energy-saving emission reduction measure.   (3) Spare parts and materials renovation and reusing. Under the premise of ship operation security and  spare parts quality, it was required to renovate the used spare parts and damaged parts as far as possible.  Employees of COSCO Shipyard Lianyungang have all been devoting to the renovation work in accordance  with specific business characteristics. Because of the exceeding number of steel scrap production, COSCO  Shipyard Lianyungang has strengthened its internal management, particularly made comprehensive  inspection and registration to steel scrap. It also inspired and encouraged its employees to make span, tool  cabinet, hanging ears, guard-rails with steel scrap, which greatly developed the utilization of scrap  materials. This work has saved over 600 tons of steel in 2008. In order to enhance supercharger bearing and  oil pump refurbished item utilization, according to the statistics, COSCO Shanghai has ordered 78 sets of  Indicator/Year  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  Used steel in ship-repairing steel  structure engineering (ton)  57,458 75,639.06 100,926 163,496 192,698  303,238 Applied steel in ship-building  (ton)  85,771 86,331.3 101,395.5 179,800 151,728  256,300 Utilization of steel in  ship-building  92% 92% 92% 92% 92%  92% 
 105 host supercharger bearings (including 22 sets of refurbished items) and 53 sets of oil pump (including 22  sets of refurbished items), utilization rate of refurbished items respectively reached 28.2% and 29.3%. In  order to conserve resources and improve the utilization of spare parts, in accordance with the ships actual  situation, the seniors of the company have improved spare parts utilization through management tools, as  well as set the goal of achieving the utilization rate to at least 60% of refurbished supercharger bearing and  oil pump items. The company has analyzed the reasons for low utilization of spare parts from the aspects of  staff, management, materials and environment while formulated improvement measures for the main  reason. After the implementation of corresponding improvement measures, utilization rate of bearing and  oil pump respectively reached 77.27% and 80.95% in 2008, which has respectively increased by 49.07%  and 51.65% over 2007, far exceeded the previous goal of 60.0%.  (4) Reducing burden of office environment.COSCO Group has been adhering to the office modernization  process and used digital management platform for files and information delivery to fulfill paper-free office  work and reduce paper consumption to the maximum extent. In 2008, the paper saving rate of COSCO  Group reached 20%, an increase of 3.2% year-on-year.   2. Energy   COSCO Group actively carried out and implemented the Energy Conservation Laws of the Peoples  Republic of China, the Decision on Enhancing Energy Conservation Work of the State Council, the  Detailed Rules for Traffic Industry to Implement Energy conservation Laws, the Notice on Implementation  Plans and Methods on Statistics, Supervision and Evaluation on Energy Conservation and Emission  Reduction approved and circulated by the State Council, the Notice on Environmental Protection of the  State during 11th Five-year Period issued and printed by the State Council, the Working Opinions on  Enhancing Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction of Central Enterprises and the Notice on Energy  Conservation and Emission Reduction Management Objectives of Central Enterprises during the Tenure  issued by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Management Commission, and fulfilled the concretion  and feasibility of energy conservation and emission reduction work. In the second half of 2008, COSCO  Group continued the investigation projects on energy conservation and emission reduction to carry out  comprehensive investigation on energy consumption, equipment and environmental pollution risks of  enterprises. Guided by the lean management ideology, COSCO Group determined the key industries  (shipping, ship-building/ship-repairing and logistics), key ships (container ship, asphalt carrier, bulk  chemical carrier and LPG ship), key equipment (ship main engine, ship auxiliary engine and boiler) and  key enterprises (shipping companies whose energy consumption accounts for more than 98% of the total  energy consumption of the group) for its energy conservation and emission reduction work. The container  ship of COSCO Container Lines whose energy consumption accounts for 65% of the total energy  consumption of COSCO Group was selected as the most important part for its energy conservation and  emission reduction work.   Total energy consumption:  Indicator/Year  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  Total energy  consumption   (ton of SCE)  3,191,337.75  3,508,609.53 5,195,554.66 5,966,153.84 6,349,471.01  8,570,109 Remarks: including fuel and electricity consumption, and excluding gas and other energy consumption.                             
 106 (1) In advocacy of energy-saving and emission reduction. In order to  practice COSCOs social commitment in Global Compact, and  enhance social responsibility and implement enterprise sustainable  development, China COSCO has devoted itself in becoming an  environmental-friendly enterprises focusing on environmental protection,  ocean-protection and resource-saving. In 2008, China COSCO initiated  its energy-saving advocacy to all units and members to start full  participation in fuel consumption reduction, emission reduction and  responsibility implementation.   (2) Energy Saving. COSCO Group closely focused on international ship energy-saving and  environmental-protection technology development trend with human resource, materials and financial  support, COSCO Group digested and absorbed international leading management methods and  energy-saving and environmental-protection technology; promoted advanced and mature energy-saving and  environmental-protection technology; meanwhile, the Group continuously developed energy-saving and  environmental-protection application technology for its system with energy-saving techniques and  energy-saving management as the methods, the group implemented various energy conservations. In 2008,  COSCO Group owned and controlled over 800 vessels, fuel and oil annual consumption respectively  reached 4.62 million tons and 44,600 tons. Total energy savings reached 6.6365 million tons of standard  coals in 2008.   Energy consumptions of COSCO Group in recent few years:                  Fuel consumption indicators of main fleets of COSCO Group in recent few years   (unit: kg/kilotonsea mile)                Energy-saving required full participation and consensus   Through various forms of promotion of the importance and significance of energy-saving, China COSOC  has greatly strengthened the energy-saving awareness of all its employees thus the whole industry ranked  into the line of energy-saving.  Jinsha Water Gas Station of China Marine Bunker Supply (Guangzhou) Co. was founded in May 2008.The  station was rum by power generator and waster transport. In advocacy of COSCOs energy-saving proposal,  staffs suggested to solve and water power and transport problem of the water gas station so as to reduce  fuel consumption. Staffs of the water gas station proposed corresponding measures regarding high  installation costs and high technical difficulty and completed shore and offshore water and power  connection by November. Thereby annual operation cost was reduced by 380,000 yuan hence high  reduction of fuel consumption.  Energy-conservation by technologies   In accordance with international and national energy-saving and emission-reduction technology  development, COSCO Group absorbed leading energy-saving and environmental-protection technology  and actively put it into implementation.     
 107 Ship host cylinder supply system reconstruction. From 2005 to the end of 2008, COSCO Group invested  56.28 million yuan installing 24 ships new Electronic Control oil cylinder petrol supply system and  gained good energy-saving results in return. Take Tianfuhai of COSCO Bulk for example, it saved 130  liters of oil each day, annual savings reached about 40,000 liters.   Ship installed homogenous fuel device. From 2005 to the end of 2008, COSCO Group invested 9.5 million  yuan installing fuel devices on 21 ships. As a result, diesel oil separation amount has been significantly  reduced, particle size has been reduced, combustion performance and thermal efficiency has been improved  thus the status of the host machine was greatly improved.   Installation of diversion hood and propeller cutting edge. COSCO Group has installed 32 ships of the Les  and the Shans diversion hoods so as to reduce flow resistance while sailing. In addition, COSCO Group  has made propeller cutting edge processing to Development Roadand other 8 ships, resulting in the  change of fuel combustion status of host machine hence the improvement of thermal efficiency.   Installation of Propeller Boss Cap Fins (OBCF). Through inspection and research, and taking the  opportunities of ship repairing, the installation work of propeller boss cap fins of The Tianronghai and  The Tianshunhai has been finished and put into operation. Judging from the voyage completion of the  ship, under the circumstances that average speed has been increased, fuel consumption has been  significantly decreased.   New technology application: electronic timing control and swirl spray cylinder oil. Chin COSCO set  electronic timing control and swirl spray cylinder oil as its projects in 2003. By 2005, COSCO Group  launched the promotion of the projects. The use of electronic timing control and swirl spray cylinder oil has  met the fuel saving requirement, improved the working conditions of diesel engine cylinder, enhanced the  reliability of marine diesel host machine and reduced waste oil emission by at least 30%. Statistics showed  that fuel-saving rate reached between 20% and 40%. Single ship annual fuel savings reached 40 to 180 tons,  annual cost saving between 50,000 to over 200,000 dollar. By 2008, 45 ships of COSCO Group had been  installed electronic timing control and swirl spray cylinder oil, the use of cylinder oil had been reduced.   COSCO Shipyard Shanghai, a subsidiary of COSCO Shipyard, launched its electric welding technology  improvement and fan technology improvement projects, which saved 1300 tons of standard coal energy  annually.   COSCO Shipyard Dalian actively promoted electric power system reform project. The implementation of  the project was expected to replace the oil use of 80% of mobile power generator sets and 40% mobile air  compressor with 25 million degree of electricity utility. The replacement was expected to save various fees  of28.74 million yuan. For example, in 2008, 4012 tons of standard coal had been reduced as annual energy  consumption, thus COSCO Shipyard Dalian overall energy consumption reduced by 9.35% per 10,000  yuan output value, COSCO Shipyard energy consumption reduced by 2.64% per 10,000 yuan output value.  Annual emission exhaust gas has been reduced by 58.34 million cubic meters; carbon dioxide has been  reduced by 155.10 tons, sulfur dioxide has been reduced by 194 tons, dust and smoke has been reduced by  5.8 tons.   Optimized transformation of ship host machine supercharger at  low speed. Based on business needs, COSCO has adjusted its  3800 TEU ships originally sailed in China-US route to domestic  trading route. Taking into account the fuel saving factors, most of  the time, domestic trading route is running at lower speed. But in  the long run at a relatively low speed, diesel engine is with high  heat load and thus cylinder spare parts are easily to get damaged.  In order to keep reliability and economics of diesel engine at  relatively low speed, COSCO conducted to do pilot study.   In adoption of ship-to-shore gap to adjust the nozzle ring specification so as to increase turbine efficiency;  adjust diffuser specifications so as to increase compressor efficiency. After the modification, ship fuel  consumption reached 55 tons per days, reduced by nearly 20 tons. Thus in 2008, fuel savings for one ship  reached 2300 tons. COSCO would further carry out the promotion of such projects in the future.    (supercharger parts replacement scenery)      
 108 Energy-conservation management   COSCO Group has always been adhered to reducing cost and increasing efficiency, making every effort to  reduce energy consumption. COSCO Group has established its Energy-saving and Emission-reduction  Leading Group. Staffs including Wei Jiafu as the director, vice-president Zhang Liang as the vice-director,  COSCO Group general managers and other general managers from subsidiary companies. COSCO  Energy-saving and Emission-reduction Leading Group has overall responsibility for the leadership work of  energy-saving and emission-reduction. COSCO Group has set up its Energy-saving and Emission-reduction  Officer, in charge of supervising the launch and target setting of energy-saving and emission-reduction  work of all COSCO member units. COSCO subsidiary units have also established their own Energy-saving  and Emission-reduction Work Group. Main charge person of subsidiary companies have been appointed as  directors, vice presidents in charge of production safety have been appointed as vice director. In accordance  with shipping management and land industry characteristics, COSCO Group has established its  Environmental-protection and Energy-saving Department, Energy-saving Office and other relevant  agencies in charge of relevant works to implement responsibility system and set cross-department  communication system.   Ship fuel consumption is the main energy consumption of COSCO Group hence the continuous insistence  in process management of ship fuel consumption, timely statistics of fuel consumption and ship fuel  consumption reduction guidance. Clarified charge person for oil saving and lined fuel consumption into  performance indicator. Set more comprehensive management measures and developed ship fuel  consumption information management platform. Through analysis of fuel consumption during ship  operation process via information system, tracked and compared the fuel and lubricating oil consumption  among various ships, scientifically and reasonably set ship fuel and lubrication consumption standard,  which effectively made ship fuel consumption under control. Through various management ways and  methods such as source control, refining indicator, strengthening maintenance, dynamic tracking, process  supervision and focus concentration, took all aspects of fuel use in control and played an significant effect  on energy management.   COSCO Guangzhou has set scientific management scheduling as another focal point of fuel saving.  Operation staffs are required to have a good understanding of ship performance and fuel consumption  situation. According to practical needs of operation, in scheduling aspect, it was to strengthen  communication between ocean services, machine maintenance and ship captain while took advantage of  wind and flow favorable weather conditions, optimized routes and paid attention to the use of ships  maximum speed, service speed and economic speed , offered instruction and guidance on the use of  economic speed. Gave guidance on ships reasonable load, ensured appropriate draft of ships thus the  longitudinal leans coefficient is in favor of the speed of ships so as to achieve fuel and oil reduction which  has obtained good results in return.   Energy-saving through management methods. Started from ship speed slowing down in 2008, through  strengthening lean management and setting energy-saving goals, COSCO proposed its requirements of  Ship speed reduces by 10%, annual energy-savings reached 350, 000 tons. COSCO has researched and  drawn up COSCO Container Company Energy-saving and Emission-reduction Implementation Proposal,  covered target responsibility, supervision statistics, assessment indicators and responsibilities division. The  proposal made energy-saving and emission-reduction work more feasible. Included energy-saving and  emission-reduction work into responsibility and target management, in order to meet the annual  requirement of 350, 000 tons fuel reduction, COSCO has set fuel consumption for every single week and  set specific fuel saving amount for particular department. Also, corresponding staffs were appointed to  supervise fuel consumption and guide ship speed slowing down measures. As to ship operation  management, COSCO has specially planned speed slowing down product and implemented it step by step,  which has further reduced the original planned 3.216 million tons fuel consumption to the current 2.688  tons, with a total amount of 468, 000 tons in fuel savings, overfulfilled the 350,000 tons of fuel saving  target set before this year.   Multiple methods for fuel and lubrication saving. COSCO Hong Kong focused on fuel and lubrication  savings. Under the premise of security, reasonable route design helped reduce fuel consumption and  maintain host machine to run at economic speed hence saving fuel and lubrication and reducing operation  cost. It was required by the company that all types of pipelines and pipeline joints should be checked  frequently, repairing action should be taken immediately once oil spill phenomenon existed. In accordance  
 109 with load condition, under the circumstance that security has been affected, the use of vice machine should  be reduced so as to avoid unnecessary energy waste. To reduce lubrication consumption under the premise  of safe operation of host and vice machines, it was recommended to use and manage lubrication properly,  keep the tightness of lubrication system, avoid pollution and deterioration. It was required to operate  oil-division machine properly, frequently clean the filter, solve abnormalities once oil consumption is not  normal as usual. Oil running, dropping, dripping and leaking phenomenon would be solved immediately so  as to avoid oil waste.  Energy conservation in office  COSCO Group headquarters enhanced other energy conservation work while implementing the office  building air-conditioner temperature control measures continuously. It required its employees to turn off  computers, monitors, air conditions, printers, copiers and other equipment, cultivating good consciousness  of energy conservation.   In cooperation of the National Energy Saving Publicity Week from June 15 to June 21, COSFRE,  subsidiary of COSCON, launched a series of energy-saving and emission-reduction works, advocated its  staff to respond to the activity and contributed to green environmental-protection with their full  participations. The company initiated implementation of working in casual clothes from May to October  and adjusted the air-conditioning temperature to 25.5 degree so as to reduce air-conditioning power  consumption. Energy-saving reminder was posted at the switch of air-conditioner. At the mean time, the  company also encouraged its employees to explore their every-saving and emission-reduction potentials in  every work and welcomed them to propose corresponding ideas. For those employees who actively  participated in the activity, the company would give a timely praise. In addition to this, the company issued  articles to remind its employees saving awareness in power consumption, working equipment and vehicles  use. This was aiming at reminding its employees to reduce waste in work and foster saving awareness,  while formed a good atmosphere of resource saving, pollution avoidance and environmental protection.   Total electricity consumption of COSCO Group in 2003-2008:          Competing to become national model for energy-saving in transportation industry. In 2008, COSCO Group  continuously participated in the competition for national transportation industry energy-saving sample. Oil  Tanker Heating Automatic Monitoring Technology Application and Application of Yapu Gas in Ship  Building and Repairing Industry that researched and developed by COSCO Group was continuously  awarded the second batch of national water transportation industry energy-saving typical sample.   In 2008, in the National Transportation Systems My Contribution to Energy-saving and  Emission-reduction launched by China Seafarer Construction Union, and the follow-up activity Pioneer  Workers, COSCO Asia from COSCON and New Shenghai from COSCO Bulk were awarded  Pioneer Worker of National Transportation Construction System by Chinas Seamens Union.   3. Water resources  Water conservation of COSCO Group was comprised of ship water conservation and land water  conservation. In terms of ship water conservation, all ships of COSCO Group were equipped with seawater  desalination devices to de-salt the seawater with waste heat energies of main engines for daily water use of  crews and equipment cooling water of equipment, so as to reduce fresh water supply of ships and save fresh  water consumption. In terms of land water conservation, ship-building and ship-repairing enterprises set the  objectives of production water conservation, strictly prohibited leakage and conducted the work to protect  ocean environment to reduce the pollution on water resources.   Waste heating energy was adopted by ships in water re-production. Dapeng Bay from COSCO  Guangzhou is an asphalt ship weighing 5900 tonnage. Taking the advantage of route characteristics and the  50 days of waiting for discharge time in Luanda, Lobito Port, Dapeng Bay continuously increased fuel  consumption, using the heat of asphalt heating oil, host and sub machine fuel burning and division heat, it  has successfully produced 307 tons of fresh watch, saving land fresh water supplies. Lily Sea from  COSCO Bulk, through technology innovation and making full use of existing pile, in adoption certain pine  
 110 connection, collected and used condensed water from air-conditioner. Daily water production increased  from the previous 10.4 tons to the current 14.7 tons. Water production monthly increased 129 tons. Water  production capacity has been increased by nearly 50%.   Water consumption of COSCO Group from 2004 to 2008              Remarks: recycling seawater consumption used in cooling of ship power devices is not included in above table.     Reduction of water consumption compared with that of the previous year  Indicator/Year  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  Reduction of water consumption (ton)  50,737  45,415  52,669  58,134  120924    4. Bio-diversity   Paying attention to worldwide natural resources and ecological environment is the responsibility that all  multinational companies including COSCO Group should undertake.  (1) The use of non-toxic paint, marine life protection. COSCO Group started its silicone paint pilot  experience in 2005, tracking and researching the protection circumstances of different silicone paints to  marine life. COSCO Qingdao has conducted research on Intersleek 900 Energy-saving and  Environmental-protection paint which was awarded 2008 Yacht and Ship Environmental Technology  Award. Silicone paint was tested on Tianshun Sea during ship repairing period. Energy-saving and  Environmental-protection silicone paint Intersleek 900 was able to extend ship repairing cycle from 30  months to 60 months and therefore reduced the amount of silicone paint use and protected marine life.   (2) Ship ballast water management. COSCO Group strictly enforced conventions and relevant port  requirement worldwide. COSCO Group has developed Ship Ballast Water Management Plan which  clearly defined responsibilities. Ballast water replacement requirement was established while records and  monitor for the whole ballast process were recorded, so as to fully protect marine environment and keep  biological diversity development. Based on the research and development of COSCO Group Ship Ballast  Waster Physical Purification Treatment Technology, COSCO Group actively minimized the negative  impact of ship ballast water to marine biological diversity and promoted marine environment and marine  biological diversity protection.   COSCO Bulk Fast Sea was a steel structure Handymax bulk carrier built in 1984. Due to its old age, ship  structure was aging and pipeline leakage phenomena were frequently seen, ship ballast water residues  became more and more serious which brought big troubles to ballast water management. Corresponding  staff members were appointed to study ship ballast water residues reasons. Through targeted improvements  and maintenances, ballast water drainage time was significantly reduced and there was a significant drop in  water volume. Residual ballast water issue has been resolved and thus the ships ballast water management  requirements were met.   (3) COSCO Group Boao eco-garden construction. With the concept  of harmonious unity of nature, society and human, COSCO Group  adhered to regional ecological environmental protection, recycling  economy development, water pollution concentrated solution, air  pollution, forest coverage, waste pollution and other protection  measures to eco-areas. Environmental protection and biodiversity  conservation was taken into account of the architectural design,  environmental design, water use, original forestry conservation and  animal species protection of Boao eco-garden.( Boao eco-garden)       
 111 5. Exhaust gas, sewage and waste  With the expansion of production scale and increase of ship number, the total volume of exhaust gas,  sewage and waste of COSCO Group was increasing. However, the discharging volume of freight turnover  per unit was kept at a low level in 2008.   (1) Exhaust gas emission (direct emissions)   Total emissions  Statistics scope has been enlarged in 2008 which leads to great change of 2008 data compared with 2007  data:  A. CO2: According to IMO MEPC/29/18/DEC.1989 of IMO Marine Environment Union, one kilogram  fuel produces 3110 grams CO2.   B. NOx: According to Clean Cargo Working Group Environmental Performance Survey Appendix II, one  kilogram fuel of two-stroke diesel machine produces 87 grams NOx; one kilogram fuel of four-stroke  diesel machine produces 57 grams NOx  C. Sox: According to Clean Cargo Working Group Environmental Performance Survey Appendix II, under  the premise that sulfur content is 3%, on kilogram fuel produces 60 grams SOx  Emissions for unit turnover volume          (2) Use of low-sulfur fuel to reduce emissions of sulfur oxides. Ships of COSCO Group further enhanced  the convention compliance strengths. They increase use of low-sulfur fuels in specific sea area according to  the requirements of MARPOL Convention Appendix VI, to reduce the emissions. In 2008, they used  107,592 tons of low-sulfur fuels and increased 11.82 million yuan of fuel costs.   (3) Use of desulfurization and dedusting equipment. Starting from emission reduction, COSCO Qingdao  has invested 290, 000 yuan for the installation of desulfurization and dedusting equipment. This equipment  was to achieve full cleaning of gas through atomized alkali solution thus SO2 from the gas would be  absorbed by the alkali solution hence achieved the purpose of desulfurization. Desulfurization efficiency  would reach about 60%-70%.   (4) Replace acetylene gas with high efficiency and clean natural gas, reduce emission. COSCO Shipyard  Zhoushan actively promoted energy-saving and emission-reduction technology innovation, eliminated  outdated materials and processes, replaced the traditional acetylene products with high energy-consuming,  high pollution and big security risk with clean gas. According to statistics, the application of this scientific  and technological achievement has annually reduced 5.2 tons of hydrogen sulfide gas and 80.7 tons of  phosphine for COSCO Zhoushan, which contributed to the enterprises energy-saving and  emission-reduction in addition to profit earning.   (5) Pollution accidents prevention, drainage system function recovery. The original design of  CHIMBUSCO Lianyungang Kangyun Oil Tanker Area was with drainage system, rainwater will be  discharged directly into sea. In August 2008, the company carefully checked sewage and drainage facilities,  made on-site assessment of drainage system situation. The original valve had been remained closed for  many years so it might not be close tightly once opened. Once oil spill incident occurs, spill oil might be  discharged directly into the sea with rainwater which caused pollution incident. In accordance with actual  Indicator/Year  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  Carbon dioxide(ton)  6,852,708  7,408,051 11,071,600 12,688,800 13,716,510  16094701 Nitrogen oxides (ton)  192,318  207,903 301,176 345,168 373,131  325,483 Sulfur oxides (ton)  123,791  133,823 213,600 244,800 263,039  274,564 
 112 situation, the company drew the map of drainage system in the reservoir area, organized demolition and  maintenance work for all valves and cleaned up drainage lines and sewage pipelines so that the rainwater  could be discharged into the sea. This efficiently improved the pollution incident prevention level of the  depot.   (6) All ships of COSCO Group own the International Oil Pollution Prevention (IOPP) Certificates. As  required by the international convention, all newly built ships of the group hold the Environmental  Protection Emission Certificate.  (7) The Green Flag program. The Green Flag program is an environmental protection program initiated  by the Port of Long Beach of the U.S., requiring all ships in and out the Long Beach Port to keep the  shipping speed under 12 knots within 35 sea miles to the pilot station to reduce the exhaust gas emissions  caused by fuel combustion. Since the implementation of the plan, all ships of COSCO Group had followed  the requirements of the port carefully when arriving at the Port of Long Beach Port and their shipping  speeds were strictly controlled with an achievement rate of 100%. The Long Beach Port gave high praise to  COSCO Group. On April 9, COSCO was appraised as one of 14 winners of environmental protection flags  in 2008 of the Port of Long Beach. It was the fourth time for COSCO Group to win such honor.                                                                                                                                         Indirect carbon dioxide emissions:  Indicator/Year  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  Carbon dioxide (ton)  7,718  19,690  20,910  29,544  71,739.51  279812 Remarks: The table only lists the indirect carbon dioxide emissions caused by electricity consumption.   Calculation coefficient of indirect carbon dioxide emissions caused by electricity consumption: 1kwh of electricity  consumption generates 0.994 kg of carbon dioxide emissions (Sources: average figure released by the National  Development and Reform Commission)  In 2008, the statistical scope was expanded, resulting in great changes between data in 2007 and 2008.  (8) Reduction of emissions of ozone depleting substances. In order to reduce the emission of ozone  depleting substances, COSCO Group strictly conformed to the international conventions when using  medium and refrigeration agents in fire control equipment, refrigeration equipment and others. In the  air-conditioning and ice-making machines of newly built ships, COSCO Group continued to use 404A  condensation agent with zero damage to ozone layer and high cooling and heating efficiency. In 2008, all  ships for which ship-building contacts were signed met all the related requirements.  (9) Oil residues, sewage and wastes. COSCO Group continued following the regulations as specified in  IMOs MARPOL 73/78 conventions, Appendix IV Rules on Preventing Domestic Sewage Pollution of  Ships and Appendix V Rules on Preventing Garbage Pollution of Ships, required all ships to take the  responsibilities of environmental protection and pollution reduction, operated in accordance with the  regulations of the Convention and the Constitution of the company, reduced the ship oil residues, garbage  and sewage of ships as much as possible and strictly followed the regulations relating to special region and  oil content of the international conventions in ship discharges. Aiming at the implementation of all tasks,  COSCO Group established strict and complete management system and formulated operational regulations  for management activities such as oil residue disposal, shore-returning of garbage and sewage discharge. In  the past five years, no oil residue pollution accidents were occurred, nor the Group received any  economical or non-economical penalties.  
 113 (10) All ships were equipped with 15PPM monitoring devices of oil-water separator. The environmental  protection facilities had kept 100% of perfection rate and 100% of stable operation rate.  Oil residues pollution discharged to the sea and pollution discharge and shore-returning volume   Indicator/Year  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  Oil residues discharged to the  sea (ton)  0  0  0  0  0  0  Ship pollution dischange and  shore-returning volume(ton)  37,784  35,706  44,866  48,753  44,658  35,021    Solid wastes: COSCO Group collected and disposed solid wastes according to regulations as specified  in the appendixes of MARPOL Convention.             Processing and disposal rate of industrial wastes of ships (including garbage, oil dirt and residues)  reached 100%.            Waste disposal volume: COSCO Group collected and incinerated wastes according to the  requirements of international conventions.            Remarks: In 2008, the statistical scope was expanded, resulting in great changes between data in 2007 and 2008.  (11) In 2008, COSCO continued to enhance the environmental protection work in offices, collected waste  oils, waste daylight lights and batteries within the group, and established the working record for collection  and disposal of hazardous wastes to effective reduce and prevent the environmental pollution.   (12) Serious spillage accidents. In 2008, no serious spillage accidents or maritime pollution accidents  (including oil, waste, chemicals and other spillage events) happened to ships and land-based enterprises of  COSCO Group.   Inputs for reduction of exhaust gas emissions          (13) Ship decommissioning policies and ship decommission information of COSCO Group. In 2008,  COSCO Group continued to carry out the No. 8 Decree of the Ministry of Communications issued on July  5, 2006 to put the ships reaching the decommissioning age out of commission. In the meantime, ships not  reaching the decommissioning age, but were in a poor state and were considered as not suitable to ocean  shipping were also put out of commission. The decommissioned ships of COSCO Group were sold in two  ways, i.e. operational ships and waste steel ships, which were sold to shipping companies with operational  qualifications and to qualified ship scrapping companies respectively, so as to avoid the environmental  influences. For ships sold to qualified ship scrapping companies, COSCO Group required the scrapping  companies to made commitment on the contract in terms of qualifications, establishment and operation of  
 114 environment management systems and main purposes after scrapping, ensuring the scrapping of ships the  premise of environmental protection and thus reducing the impacts to the environment to minimum extents.   Statistics of decommissioned ships of COSCO Group in recent five years           (14) Enhance resource recycling and comprehensive utilization. COSCO Group has attached great  importance to resource recycling and comprehensive utilization. It encourages all production units to  enhance resource-saving and waste reutilization work. The ship-building and ship-repairing enterprises of  COSCO Group enhanced the comprehensive use of wastes based on features of enterprises, reduced the  wastes, and did a good wok in recycling and utilization of renewable energies. It takes renewable metals,  waste tyres and waste electronic products as the focuses for recycling and reutilization work and promoted  the recycling and reutilization work of renewable energies.   COSCO Xiamen implemented reorganization of fuel recycling and reutilization process based on  mechanism features of different ships. Two vessels can use mixed oil in standby engine after refitting.  Heavy oil and light oil are mixed at the proportion of 1:1. After the refitting, the ship greatly increases the  recycling of fuel leakage and improves the fuel recycling and reutilization rate.   6. Products and services  Over the years, COSCO Group has been actively fulfilling its behavior standards in environmental  protection, endeavoring to become a green service provider. In order to improve oil quality and the  burning efficiency thus reducing the environmental influences of emissions of ships propulsion, COSCO  Group actively used the additives that have combustion-support, stabilization and energy-conservation  functions on fuels. As ship is a major service tool for ocean shipping, COSCO Group has attached great  importance to the disposal procedures of ship after decommission. In the past, decommissioned ships were  disposed in form of sale and buyers often used the ships for transport of near-ocean shipping lines.  Logistics companies did better jobs in survey, investigation, design and preparation during transportation  processes and sought for best opportunities in terms of time, equipment and operation to reduce the  influence on neighboring residents as much as possible. In terms of ship-building and ship-repairing,  related companies actively controlled the environment-influencing factors such as emission, dust and noise,  building a harmonious production and living environment as well as a harmonious community  environment.  7. Regulations  COSCO Group Strictly enforced the Energy Conservation Law of the Peoples Republic of China, the  Maritime Environment Protection Law of the Peoples Republic of China, the China Ocean Law, the  Environment Protection Law of the Peoples Republic of China and relevant international conventions and  decrees on international environmental protection. It has paid close attention to collection and research of  laws and regulations at home and abroad and regularly held training and symposium classes on related laws  and regulations to improve employees awareness of law compliance and prevent the law and  regulation-breaching accidents.   8. Traffic transportation   COSCO Group advocated Green Driving and strictly abided by the regulations that displacement volume  of newly purchased official vehicles should be under 2.4L engine (including 2.4L).  COSCO Group strictly implemented the business trip approval system, encouraged online communications  between companies and departments, and held video and telephone conferences as many as possible to  reduce exhaust gas emissions and energy consumption of traffic tools.         
 115 In 2008, COSCO Group saved RMB 18.78 million of traveling expenses through video and telephone  conferences.           9. General situation  With the continuous development of the social economy, peoples awareness for protecting the natural  environment is becoming increasingly stronger. COSCO Group increased the inputs for environmental  protection while creating the atmosphere of safety and environmental protection, establishing the  philosophy of safety being the priority and harmonious development and ensuring life and property safety  and environmental cleanliness. Meanwhile, it actively promoted R&D and introduction of environmental  protection technologies, developed indicators for emission reduction and divided the indicators for  emission reduction into different levels for evaluation at the end of the year. In this way, COSCO Group  has made remarkable achievements in energy conservation and environmental protection.   Total expenses and investment on environmental protection:             Statistics on main inputs for environmental protection:                                            
 117 Part III Product liability performance indicator and key report  I. Management approaches  1. Objectives and performances  All shipping companies, logistics companies and ship-building and ship-repairing companies of COSCO  Group voluntarily performed their due responsibilities in product life span and service providing process. In  the product development, design, performance, implementation and follow-up service sectors, they had  attached great importance to safety and health of consumers and actively delivered product and service  information by making use of IT technologies. They had insisted on the marketing strategies based on  self-discipline principles of "being honest to customers worldwide and establishing the credit", operated the  business in accordance with laws and regulations, and established law-complying production and  consumption environment together with customers. In 2008, COSCO Group entered into strategic  partnership relationships with many world top 500 enterprises and local governments and was awarded the  Green Flag Award by the U.S. for its environmental protection efforts again.  2. Policies and regulations  All companies affiliated to COSCO Group established and implemented the sustainable development  management system and comprehensive risk management system to fulfill the requirements regarding to  related products and services. By establishing procedures such as product design and development, contract  control, production implementation and management of upstream and downstream industrial chains, they  eliminated all possibilities that may affect safety and health of customers or controlled them to the  minimum extents. They established law-compliance evaluation procedures to change related regulations on  customer health and safety and product liability of international companies and the national laws into daily  operational principles. They formulated marketing service manual and rules for freight canvassers and  information disclosure regulations to standardize marketing and product promotion processes. They  developed and used cargo operational system, logistics information platform, ship management dynamic  tracing system and other software systems to ensure timely and effective information transmission in  product and service providing processes.  3. Organizations and responsibilities  COSCO Group headquarters and all its subsidiaries set up the offices for sustainable development  committees or regulatory departments responsible for effective operation and control of quality,  environment, occupational health and social responsibility management systems of the headquarters and its  subsidiaries. The Transportation Department of the COSCO Group headquarters is responsible for  formulation of guidelines and policies for transportation production of COSCO Group. The Safety  Technology Supervision Department is responsible for ship, crew and cargo safety in transportation process.  The product and service design and development departments of the companies are responsible for  collection and identification of customers' safety and health demands and product and service liability  requirements. The product manufacturing and service providing departments strictly implement related  regulations to ensure quality of product manufacturing and service providing processes. The marketing  departments promote the products and services honestly and faithfully under the marketing guidelines of  the group, and participate in opening and fair competition of the market. The management departments are  responsible for collection of customer satisfaction information, investigation and analyses on  insufficiencies, formulation of corrective and preventative measures and supervision on the  implementation.  4. Trainings and communications  COSCO Group has enhanced the trainings and popularization of knowledge regarding product and service  liability through its own portal website and other professional websites, allowing more employees to know  the group's regulations on product liability and the commitments made to the society. It enhanced the  communications with customers and consumers through online information released and commercial  platform established, so as to share related resources and understand customers' demands. COSCO Group  headquarters and its subsidiaries set up a special budget for training, formulated annual training plans and  organized daily trainings in the forms of self-study, class and accreditation to improve product liability  awareness and related skills of the employees. In the training, the group took the contents such as customer  
 118 health and safety regarding product and services, product and service information type and providing  method, product and service-related laws and regulations, industrial regulations, respect to customers'  privacy, law-complying product and legal operation as the necessary contents for training.  5. Supervision and certification  COSCO Group headquarters and its subsidiaries supervised and check the product and service liability  relating activities through annual internal audit, second-party supervision and audit, and third party  certification and audit. Based on internal audit and management evaluation, it summarized and analyzed the  implementation effectiveness of regulations related to product and service liability. It evaluated the  compliance degree in performing product and service liability from the customers point of view through  on-site audit of the second party. It also justly and objectively evaluated the consistency and effectiveness  of the companies' efforts to perform product and service liability compared with related standards and  documents through third-party certification and audit. COSCO Group headquarters and its subsidiaries  established daily and annual evaluation mechanism to supervise, evaluate and check the product and  service liability-related contents as specified in the operation and management liability objectives. It carried  out customer satisfaction survey and information collection work through various ways to get customers'  opinions and suggestions, so as to accept supervision from the customers and the public.   Statistical table for establishment and operation of management systems established by companies  affiliated to COSCO Group according to Quality Management Standards (ISO9000) and  international/domestic safety management regulations (ISM CODE/NSM CODE):  Quality management system International/domestic safety and  anti-pollution management systems Company  Established  Certified  Established  Certified  COSCO Group headquarters      --  --  COSCO Group       --  --  COSCO Container Lines      --  --  COSCO Bulk Carrier          COSCO Shipping          COSCO Qingdao          COSCO Dalian          COSCO Xiamen          COSCO Hong Kong          COSCO Logistics      --  --  COSCO Shipyard      --  --  COSCO Shipbuilding       --  --  CHIMBUSCO      --  --  Hainan Boao COSCO      --  --  COSCO Ocean Shipping  Tally      --  --  COSCO Human  Resources/COSCO      --  --  COSCO U.K.      --  --  Symbol:  Complet ed -- Not applicable                
 119 II. Performance indicators  In 2008, COSCO Group and its subsidiary enterprises again made systematic classification and  identification of all products and services that included in its sustainable development report. COSCO  Group and its subsidiary enterprises made a comprehensive assessment of the impact on health and safety  of its services and products in their life cycles. COSCOs detailed services and products classification are  as follows:   Product classification and its impact assessment   Serial  No.  Product Classification  Product Description  Completion of life  cycle assessment  Container  Transportation  About 141 ships in control. Owns todays most  advanced  container  ships  (transportation  capacity over 10000 TEU), total transportation  capacity reaches 500, 000 TEU, fleet size  ranks  first  domestically  and  the  sixth  internationally.  Connects over 150 ports of  53 countries, operates 67 international routes,  11 international branch lines, 80 domestic  coastal routes or branch lines.  Yes  Dry Bulk Cargo  Transportation  516 ships in control, including 224 self-owned  ships  and  292  chartered  ships.  Total  transportation capacity reaches 39.65 million  dwt. Fleet size ranked first in the world.  Yes  Liquid Bulk Cargo  Transportation  Owns and operates 29 oil tankers, 23 other  liquid bulk carriers. Total transportation  capacity reaches 4.99 million dwt. The oil  tanker fleet is among the worlds top ones.  Yes  1  International Maritime Transportation  Grocery Item  Transportation  Owns, operates and manages 102 ships.  Transportation capacity reaches 1.83 million  dwt. Ship types include semi-submersible  vessels, heavy lift ships, multi-functional  ships, ro-ro ships, timber ships, bitumen ships  and  general  grocery  item  ships.  Comprehensive  strength  of  professional  Grocery,  multi-functional  and  special  transportation fleet ranks the world forefront.  Yes  Integrated Logistics COSCO Logistics provides integrated logistic  services  including  modern  logistics,  international  ship  agent,  international  multimodal  transportation,  public  transportation agent, air cargo agent, container  station management, warehousing and LCL  service,  railway,  highway  and  barge  transportation as well as charter broker.  COSCO Logistics has been continuously  awarded The Best 100 China Logistics  Enterprises for four years.  Yes  Port Business  COSCO Logistics globally invested and  operated 32 docks and has got 157 berths, of  which taking in and sending put capability  ranks the fifth in the worldwide scale.  Yes  Container Leasing  Floren Container Holdings Co., Ltd owns and  hosts 1,621,222 TEU. Its container leasing  business accounted for 13.6% in the global  market.  Yes  2  Logistics  Container  Manufacturing  China International Marine Container Co.,  Ltd, joint venture through COSCO Pacific, is  the worlds largest container manufacturing  company, its market share accounted for more  Yes  
 120 than 50%.  Ship Repairing  Ship repairing bases in Dalian, Zhoushan,  Nantong,  Guangzhou,  Shanghai  and  Lianyungang own 16 different types of  shipyards of 30 dwt and 50 dwt. Business  including  ships  and  ocean  engineering  construction,  modification  and  repairing,  production  equipment  assembly  level,  domestic leading production management  level, technological capability, production  efficiency and  production cost rank the top  in worldwide scale. The company has annually  repaired more than 500 vessels and annual  ship building capacity reaches 200 dwt.  Yes  3  Shipbuilding  and  ship-repairing  Shipbuilding  COSCO Shipbuilding Industry is the current  domestic largest shipbuilding heavy enterprise.  Its production capacity reached 240 dwt in  200. Shipbuilding technology is at leading  level domestically.  Yes  Fuel Stock and  Sales; Lubrication  Agency Service    China Marine Bunker own a wide range of  103 vessels, 18 oil storage facilities, witha  total storage capacity of 1,240,000 cubic  meters. It owns docks with mature equipments  and truck loading and unloading lines  providing fuel, lubrication and fresh water  supplies for international and domestic coastal  transportation ships. China Marine Bunker is  engaged in import trade of oil products and  various types of oil products transportation  and warehousing, meanwhile, it launches  storage, supplies, sales and transportation  agency services for various types of oil. Raw  material processing of lubrication was also  included in its business scope.    Yes  Ship Tally  China Ocean Shipping Tally is a crucial  enterprise dedicating to ship tally business. It  has set more 80 branches in the national wide  range including Shanghai, Ningbo, Tianjin,  Qingdao, Dalian, Xiamen, Fuzhou, Shenzhen,  Guangzhou and other major ports.  Yes  Finance  Approved by China Banking Regulatory  Commission, COSCO Finance is a non-bank  financial institution aiming at the centralized  management of groups funds and improving  the use efficiency of funds. It provides  thegroup members with financial management  services.  Yes  Business Meeting,  Hotel and Vacation  Boao COSCO Co., Ltd is committed to the  development, construction, operation and  management of equipped facilities of Boao  Asia Forum. Five operation units consist of  Boao COSCO Co., Ltd: Sofitel Hotel (five  stars), Boao Golden Coast Hot Spring Hotel  (five stars), Boao Asia Forum Scenic Spot  Management Company, Boao Asia Forum  International Convention Center Golf Club  and Dongyu Island Hot Springs Hotel. In  addition to the annual Forum reception work,  Boao COSCO Co., Ltd receives over 750,000  tourists and hosts nearly 200 domestic and  international middle- and high-level meetings.  Yes  4  Others  International Labor  Service  COSCO Manning is a state-owned enterprise  with  Labor  Assignment  Operation  Yes  
 121 Qualification that approved by the Ministry of  Commerce. COSCO Manning sends qualified  seafarers and other labors to work overseas. So  far COSCO Manning has cumulatively sent  more than 130, 000 seafarers and other labors.  COSCO  Manning  has  been  awarded  Outstanding Foreign Cooperation Labor  Service Enterprise for many times by the  national authority. It has been awarded one of  the first AAA-grade Credit Enterprise of  Chinas Foreign Cooperation Labor Service  Enterprise for the first time in 2008.  According to the assessment results of safety and heath impact of self-owned products and services  throughout the whole life cycle, COSCO Group and its subsidiary companies, further optimized  corresponding management programs. Taking positive actions, under premise of health safety and  environment-protection, COSCO Group and its subsidiary companies successfully completed production  and management targets. Completion of specific targets are as follows:   Table for Transportation Production and Relevant Targets  Name of Target/Year  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  Arrival Out of Work Times  451 495 542 382  725 Departure Out of Work Times  942 539 598 438  742 Punctual Arrival Rate   95.27 95.50 95.96 96.97  94.05 Punctual Departure Rate   94.84 95.10 95.24 96.55  93.91 Integrated Punctuality Rate  95.06 95.3 95.46 96.76  93.98 In 2008, COSCO Group had received none complaints or punishment regarding the impact of its products  and services on health and safety.   1. Customer health and safety   In all sectors of related product life cycle of shipping, logistics and ship-building and ship-repairing  industries, COSCO Group fully evaluated and considered the matters related to customer health and safety.  When the shipping companies opened new lines, the regulatory departments would make an all-round  understanding and evaluation on such aspects as the universe and the geography of the sea areas and ports  along the routes, the technology situation of ships and local requirements of laws and regulations through  collecting information or on-site investigation, thus meeting the needs of customers and related  requirements for opening of the lines. Before transporting the cargos, responsible persons of the companies  would check the category, nature, quantity and weight of the cargos as well as the seaworthiness and fitness  of ships to ensure safe transportation of cargos. The logistics companies provided three stages of evaluation  and control, i.e. cargo attribute verification, proposal design and services, ensuring customers health and  safety and fulfilling customers logistics and transportation demands of customers very efficiently and  safely. Ship-building and ship-repairing companies abided by the regulations of the management systems in  terms of product design, manufacturing and delivery as well as after-sales service, and conducted  full-process supervision and control over the project based on the work division to ensure customers health  and the safety relating to ship-building and ship-repairing projects.   In 2008, COSCO Bulk Carrier increased its safety input and  security protection. With ship repairing as the input point, under  the circumstance of the severe decline of operating results in  shipping market, COSCO Bulk Carrier has cumulatively  replaced over 5000 tons of place for The Fengguang Sea,  total repairing period reached 201 days. Such a large-scale  restructuring greatly improves the situation of vessels,  completely eliminates the hidden troubles of vessel structure  and effective increases the operation life span of vessels.   
 122 China Marine Bunker launched production security knowledge and skills competition aiming at raise staffs  awareness and skills of production security. In order to ensure the reliability and safety of ships, China  Marine Bunker has employed experts to make safety assessment of oil warehouses and docks. The  company has inputted 5, 949, 904. 97 yuan for ship repairing funds and 913, 700 yuan for oil warehouse  maintenance and equipments impaction funds, which eliminated security risks in time.   2. Products and service logos  Through text, e-commerce platform, newspapers, magazines and other channels, shipping enterprises  timely and accurately released the public voyage/route information, ship dynamic information, ship  technical information, transportation expenses information, booking information and other relevant sales  information; through customer needs analysis, in adoption of website, magazine, phone call, fax, email and  other methods, logistics enterprises timely and accurately published its customers information regarding  routes, tariffs, logistics lines, station data, quality assurance and other relevant information; ship repairing  enterprises, after classified and organized various types of data and supervision information regarding ship  repairing and conversion works, regularly announced to the public via newspaper, newsletter, magazine  and NEWSLETTER system, this information releasing methods had been maintained and developed via  mechanism and system construction.   Focusing on customers, Chins COSCO and its subsidiary companies attached great importance to  customers voices. All companies affiliated to COSCO Group established customer satisfaction  information collecting and analyzing mechanism. They actively collected customers opinions and  suggestions to the products and services in consumption processes, and know customers satisfaction on  products and services by holding regular customer satisfaction survey, customers representative meeting,  customer exchange fairs and organizing opinion-collecting activities, analyzed reasons of the problems and  formulated related measures for correction and improvement.   In 2008, COSCO Group had no accidents or complaints caused by breaching related laws and voluntary  codes of behaviors in terms of products and service information and logo.   (1) Establishment of information platform for sharing of information resources  Besides making huge inputs to introduce and improve IRIS-II container management & operation system,  COSCO Group actively encouraged its affiliated companies to develop related management software,  establish information system and platform and share product and service information with customers.   The Logistics Management Information System developed by COSCO Logistics was applicable to large  and medium-sized logistics management work in long-term and stable contracts for effective management  of transportation with cluster warehouse and large regional scope. The system boastedwide coverage of  business management and strong feasibility and reflected advanced management ideologies. The system  allows COSCO Logistics to master and manage the data flow of customers in whole process, satisfies  customers real-time inquiry demands in cargo transport process, and helped customers to adjust  transportation plans and to  solve the issues and potential worries in transportation process.   (2) Continuous improvement of customer satisfaction and information collection mechanism   COSCO Group has employed third-party rating agency for successive four years and has made customer  satisfaction rate survey towards hundreds of container customers in the nationwide. After a comprehensive  collection of customer satisfaction responses, COSCO Group had effectively responded to customers  comments and suggestions, set corrective measures and conducted implementation by specific departments.   COSCO Dalian arranged visits from time to time to major oil companies including BP and Shell, while also  invited major oil companies to pay visits. Through interactive visits, COSCO Dalian got a further  understanding of customer needs and customer satisfaction situation, acquired advanced service and  management experiences while found own shortcomings. Through overcoming the shortcomings, COSCO  Dalian further improved their safety and management capabilities.   3. Market promotion and publication   COSCO Group had been adhering to the marketing strategies of taking honesty as the bases and  foundations. In the marketing and publicizing processes, it has tried to win market shares and attract  customers with quality, brand and reputation. The company firmly believes that legal promotion and honest  
 123 marketing are core requirements for its development. By holding customers meetings and shipping line  meetings, all shipping companies, logistics companies, and ship-building and ship-repairing companies  worked with customers to analyze the market situations, honestly released the sales policies and related  information, publicly released and promoted the honest marketing concept insisted on by the company, and  accurately delivered information regarding its production scale, feasibility and management level without  any exaggerations. Companies affiliated to COSCO Group established related mechanisms, implemented  information disclosure responsibility system and carefully checked and audited the materials and  information included in all disclosures and advertisements. It had been abiding by the anti-monopoly laws  and regulations of trade countries to protect rights and interests of cargo owners and stakeholders. By  signing long-term strategic agreements and collaborating with partners, it fulfilled mutual benefits of both  parties in fair competition and favorable cooperation. When dealing with the relationships with investors  and cooperators, it had been honest and faithful by insisting on the ideology of co-existence and  co-development with investors and cooperators. When dealing with the relationships with rivals, it insisted  on the principle of both competition and coordination.   In 2008, COSCO Group received no penalties for any breaching of the laws and regulations and  self-regulatory codes of behaviors regarding marketing and advertising.  China Marine Bunker and Qingdao Port (Group) Co., Ltd signed strategic cooperation agreement  On Oct. 23, China Marine Bunker and Qingdao Port (Group)  Co., Ltd signed strategic cooperation agreement. China  Marine Bunker and Qingdao Port (Group) Co., Ltd  maintained long-term friendly and cooperative relations and  held the ideology of long-term, complementary advantages,  mutual benefit and common development. The signing of  strategic cooperation agreement showed that the two sides  were to fully exploit their own advantages and launch  cooperation deeply and broadly in port services function  security construction and other relevant fields.  It also demonstrated China Marine Bunkers successful and important results in promoting optimized  logistics strategy and VIP strategy.     COSCO Group opened related transportation route to Taiwan  On Dec. 15th, 2008, ceremony of intercoastal route between  mainland China and Taiwan has been launched in Tianjin  Port Dongjian Zone. COSCO Groups domestic first 10000  TEU large modern container ship The Oceania proceeded  to Kaohsiung Harbor in Taiwan which marked the start of  intercoastal route.   COSCO Bulk Carriers subsidiary company Yuanchang Refrigerated Container Service Co., Ltd provided  monitoring and maintenance work for GE SeaCo refrigerated containers of Olympic sites.   Yuanchang Refrigerated Container Service Co., Ltd and the  worlds largest refrigerator container leasing companyGE  SeaCo have signed refrigerator repair service contract during  Olympic Games and Paralympics Games. GE SeaCo would  provide good and beverage refrigerator leasing services for  all  competition  venues  (including  competition  and  non-competition venues) in competition cities excluded Hong  Kong. Yuanchang provided all-round and all-day monitoring  and maintenance services for all the refrigerators so as to  ensure food and beverage supplies of athletes, coaches, staffs  and audiences in all competition venues. This was the  catering project that China COSOC provided for Beijing  Olympics.   
 124 4. Customer privacy  COSCO Group implemented the ISO17799 information security management system standards and  ensured piracy of customers including employees by establishing necessary mechanism and system. It also  established information safety management procedures. It set up COSCO Group Confidentiality Committee  for confidential work. It also signed confidentiality agreements with employees, requiring employees to  properly manage the information of customers and all related parties and respect their privacies. By signing  confidential agreements with customers, the company promises to keep the customer information, contract  contents and articles and freight as confidential, thus trying to protect piracy of customers. When it is  necessary for customers to provide information, the company will explain the reasons and the purpose of  the information. Except for employees of the company, the customers authorized agents, partners or  subsidiaries, the company will not share with others the customers information, not to disclose or sell the  information of customers or potential customers. With respective to respecting employees piracy, all  companies keep information such as personal information of employees such as their salaries, performance  evaluation results and medical inspection results as confidential. There were no events that the company  received complaints for due to infringing the privacy right of customers in 2008.     Developing and using software to manage customers information   Shipping, logistics, ship-building and ship-repairing companies of COSCO Group established information  management systems to enhance the storage and protection over customers information. COSCO  Container Lines effective managed customers information by making use of the independent modules in  IRIS-II system. COSCO Logistics developed and used LMIS (Logistics Management Information System)  to keep confidentiality of customers operational data in business operation. When customers use 5156  information system to check logistics status of cargos, they can search for needed information based on  their user name, password, level and using rights and can only search for related logistics data of their owns.  When serving for companies of the same industry, the risks for disclosure of client data and commercial  secrets will not appear. In public promotions, if the company needs to mention customers names, it will  ask for consent of the customers. Otherwise, it will not use customers name or logo in public promotions  indiscriminately. LMIS system was run on an independent server system specially prepared and a number  of data backup and encryption methods were adopted to ensure data safety of customers. The company  specially bought professional anti-virus software to avoid customers data being affected by virus and  Trojans, avoiding malicious theft of customers data.    Honest and faithful services win honors  In the face of good development opportunities and fierce market competition, COSCO Group has insisted  on systematic development concept, abided by its obligations and actively performed its social  responsibilities, so as to fulfill better and faster development of the enterprise and the objectives of  building up a long-lived COSCO. Companies affiliated to COSCO Group took the tenet of providing  optimized services for customers and bringing maximum returns of shareholders, insisted on the spirits  of being practical and making innovation, stuck to the tenet of honesty and faithfulness and the operation  and management concept of service first. It spares no efforts to create value of enterprises and protect their  rights and interests and insisted on the value concept of bringing mutual benefits to the enterprise and  customers. It started from Chinese market to provide safe, convenient, economical and considerate  services for global market and won high appraises and recognition of all circles of the society.   5. Law compliance  COSCO Group has insisted on relevant laws and regulations in business operation, operate honestly and  trustfully and protect the legal interests of customers and consumers. COSCO Group strives to provide  customers with safer, more convenient and more effective high-quality services, which has earned the  company a good reputation in the industry. Legal affairs institute of COSCO Group headquarters  established a legal information platform to dynamically trace the laws and regulations of related industries  and analyze the adaptability and help customers to know the relevant requirements in product and service  implementation processes. Companies affiliated to COSCO Group set up the legal affair regulatory  departments and system regulatory departments to evaluate the law compliance of products and services,  identify the requirements of laws and industry regulations that products and services should conform to.  They strictly enacted the compulsory regulations, found the deficits and adopted corrective measures to  make improvements, so as to ensure that the production course, the realization of products and services as  
 125 well as the marketing and the advertising activities can meet the requirements of related laws and  regulations. Based on arrangement of the Board of Directors, shareholders of the companies affiliated to  COSCO Group will invite external legal institutions to evaluate the legal compliance and the validity of the  companies business operation each year and invited well-known auditing institutions to conduct the audit  for the companies in a bid to identify the related requirements of laws and industry regulations for the  companies production, operation, products and services. They reported the situation of legal compliance  and the validity according to the standard auditing system, which will be delivered to the Board of  Directors for examination and made corrections and improvements on the deficiencies. In 2008, COSCO  Group faced no severe penalties for breaching related laws and regulations regarding product and service  liability.     COSCO Group establishes law information system  COSCO Group has started from the angle of ensuring legal compliance of products and services and  established a legal information system based on the Chief Law Advisors Office, building up a platform for  resource sharing and business exchange for its employees. The legal information system includes many  legal information databases that will be updated accordingly and boasts functions such as information  exchange, law resource sharing and contracts and documents recording. It boasts the inquiry function on  personnel and institutes and provides effective legal information for companies and customers. The system  provides powerful data supports to legal work, helping related personnel to check and read massive reliable  legal materials, and to focus and study new laws, regulations, policies, explanations and cases continuously.  It also provides a highly efficient platform for business exchange of the company, so as to fulfill sharing of  human resources and bring functions of human resources into full play. Establishment of the legal  information system provided solid bases for law popularization work of the group and created conditions  for establishment of lawyer resource web of COSCO Group. Informationized network was used to help  COSCO Group to better integrate and use resources of legal system, save costs of legal works and avoid  legal risks in product and service providing processes of the company.                             
 127 Part IV Labor relation performance indicators and theme report  I. Management approaches   1. Objectives and performances  COSCO Group insisted on people-orientation, studied and implemented scientific development concept in  an in-depth manner, and started from its long-term development strategy to innovate operational ideas,  improve its management, optimize the structure and establish a harmonious enterprise, so as to establish  teams of entrepreneurs, technical talents, operational and management talents, and crews that are adaptable  to requirements of its development strategies. COSCO Group actively promoted the diversified employee  and culture management and its global operation and management. It propelled the overall development of  human resources, deepened crew system reforms and promoted the social work such as pensions and  medical insurance. It established peaceful and diversified talent competition mechanism, built up a platform  for employees to bring their talents into full play and fulfilled the harmony and unification of employees  growth and enterprises development. In 2008, it has completed the health and safety training targets set up  in early of the year.     Long-term target: continuously improve overall quality of employees, establish professional teams  that are suitable to requirements of strategic development of COSCO Group, and create harmonious  labor relations. Insist on scientific development and human-orientated, fulfill the strategic targets of  zero accident, zero injury and zero pollution and ensure occupational health and safety of  employees;    Annual target: enhance safety consciousness of all staff and effectively reduce occurrence rate of  human injuries. Prohibit key and important injury and death accidents, avoid big accidents, effectively  control common accidents and small accidents and reduce the death toll of employees to below 0.1.  2. Policies and regulations  Based on requirements regarding crew employment and management in the Regulations for Seafarers and  the Labor Contract Law, COSCO Group has formulated the Human Resources Management Procedures,  the Safety Risk Management Procedures, the Employees Brochure and the Collection of Organization and  Human Resources Working System, defining policies relating to employee recruitment, management,  employment as well as the occupational health, labor safety, welfares and treatments. These regulations  provided solid policy bases and system guarantees for construction of a harmonious COSCO Group. The  group has established and improved the articles of associations for the labor unions and organized  collective negotiation and democratic negotiation as well as the communications and exchanges between  employees representatives and members of top management of the company. It set up female employees  committee as well as other organizations to protect legal rights and interests of female employees and  ensure physical and psychological health of female employees. COSCO Group has stuck to the strategy of  developing enterprises by talents, deepened the reform on modern personnel systems, established the  human resources management system, and enhanced the transparency and democracy for selection and  appointment of cadres. It implemented the public disclosure system in appointment of cadres and adopted  competition-for-post method on a just and fair basis to enhance employees enthusiasm, prospects and  creativity. COSCO Group established the COSCO Seafarer Information System (CSIS) to standardize the  recruitment, appointment, evaluation, training and management of crews, making sure that COSCO Group  has a crew team with sufficient members, reasonable structure and excellent quality. COSCO Group and its  subsidiaries gradually introduced OHSAS18000 occupational health & safety management standards and  ISM regulations, established and implemented the occupational health & safety management system,  formulated related procedures, notices and operational regulations for occupational health & safety  management and enhanced the management on working safety and occupational health.   3. Organization and responsibilities  COSCO Group set ups functional departments such as human resources departments, labor unions, safety  management committees and safety supervision departments, which were mainly responsible for employee  recruitment, daily evaluation, training and education, elevation and promotion and salary & benefits; for  coordination and signature of collective contracts and protection of rights and interests of employees,  including supervising the company to perform the articles of the contract, protecting female employees and  
 128 legal rights and interests of other employees; for comprehensive safety management work, including the  management of production locations, production processes and safety and occupational health of  production personnel.   4. Training and communications  COSCO Group headquarters, based on its strategic development planning and annual targets, has  formulated annual plans for training and the education of employees on occupational health and safety,  labor laws and regulations, production skills, management knowledge and employees code of conduct. It  carried out Three 300s talent project to promote the overall development of human resources of the group.  It has enhanced training strengths on urgently needed talents and laid special effects on the cultivation of  teams of directors and supervisors, high-tech talents, senior financial management personnel, advanced  crews and legal talents. In the meantime, it carefully implemented the Regulations on Seafarers, expanded  the training modes of crews, enhanced the training strengths and continuously improved the comprehensive  quality of crews. It attached great importance to pre-post, technical, safety and special work type trainings  on peasant workers, with the training rate of as high as 100%. It also did a better job in communications of  related knowledge and information with various meetings, media and networks and improved management  ability and level of employees at all levels.   COSCO Group and its affiliated companies establish diversified and effective communication mechanism  between employees and top executives, such as meetings of workers representatives, mail box of general  managers, letters and calls, meeting of democratic life for opinion collection and irregular symposiums.   5. Career development of employees  COSCO Group has attached great importance to career development of employees and coordinated planned  the career development demands and development planning of enterprises. By establishing fair, transparent  and just talent selection mechanism, providing diversified cultivation channels and establish talent selection  mechanism focusing on educational background and practical working ability, it has established an  evaluation system with working performance as the evaluation standards and encouraged employees to  improve their comprehensive ability. It makes full, reasonable and effective user of internal human  resources and balance the human demands of enterprise and career development demands of employees. It  deepens the human resources development and management, and develops talent team to the maximum  extents. It also plans career development of employees to promote the joint progress of employees and  enterprise.   6. Supervision and certification  COSCO Group supervised and inspected the occupational health and safety production work of its  subsidiaries as well as the establishment and implementation of related rules and regulations through  quarterly inspection on management system, internal audit and management and evaluation. In respect to  problems found, it analyzed the reasons, formulated corrective measures, and made self-adjustment and  self-improvement to ensure the implementation of all regulations. Based on the activity of creating four  bests leadership team, it supervised and promoted the cultivation of leadership team at all levels. Through  such means as making public the affairs of factories and enterprises and the workers congress,  COSCO Group accepted the supervision of the public and the employees on its fulfillment of related  regulations, evaluated and reviewed the key and important affairs of the company and the production and  operation status that are related to the fundamental interests of employees, and evaluated and commented  on matters such as employees welfare, occupational health, labor contract and safety product. COSCO  Group established the safety supervisor system to supervise the occupational health and safety management  as well as the operation of management systems of companies at all levels, while guiding and carrying out  the measures and proposals for labor protection and production safety. COSCO Group headquarters and  second-tier companies gradually established related systems and passed certifications of related  organizations.             
 129 Certifications of systems established by companies affiliated to COSCO Group according to related  standards and regulations:   Companies  Occupational health &  safety management system International/domestic  safety management rules  ISPS    Established  Certified Established  Certified Established  Certified COSCO Group  headquarters      --  --  --  --  COSCO Group              COSCO Container  Lines              COSCO Bulk Carrier              COSCO Guangzhou              COSCO Shipping              COSCO Qingdao              COSCO Dalian              COSCO Xiamen              COSCO Hong Kong              COSCO Logistics      --  --  --  --  COSCO Shipyard      --  --  --  --  COSCO Shipbuilding      --  --  --  --  CHIMBUSCO              Hainan Boao COSCO      --  --  --  --  COSCO Ocean  Shipping Tally      --  --  --  --  COSCO Human  Resources/COSCO      --  --  --  --  COSCO Finance      --  --  --  --  China Ocean Shipping  News      --  --  --  --  Maritime China      --  --  --  --  COSCO U.K.          --  --  Symbol:  Completed; -- Not applicable   Consigned vessel management companies or affiliated companies                    
 130 II. Performance Indicators  1. Employee employment  COSCO Group promotes diversified employee and implements global ideology and local operation. It  spared no efforts to attract, retain, award and use excellent talents worldwide and actively fulfilled its  global operation and development.   COSCO Group has always adhered to the idea of people-oriented and staff-caring during its development  process. The company has fully mobilized and taped the potentials of its employees, stimulated their  enthusiasm and offered its staffs the sense of belonging, thus achieving common growth of the company  and its employees.   (1) Employee structure  Indicator/Year  2006  2007  2008  Total number of employees  69,549 69,285 67,643 Number of mainland employees  38,435 39,959 38,757 Number of self-owned crew  26,682 25,191 24,305 Number of employees working overseas  384 383 393 Number of foreign employees  4,048 3,752 4,188 Proportion of foreign employees  5.82% 5.42% 6.19% Number of foreign female employees  working on land  1,606 1,590 1,665 Proportion of foreign female employees  working on land  39.67% 42.4% 39.75% Number of contract peasant workers  served as crews  8,875 9,435 10,924 All-staff labor productivity (yuan)  392,000 684,764 665,836   (2) Analyses on employees leaves and losses  COSCO Group has been devoted to create good working environment for employees, encourage working  enthusiasm of employees, improve the mechanism of retaining talents with good welfares, passions and  development opportunities, and improve employees satisfaction and loyalty, and achieved good results. In  2008, total number of employees who left the group reached 3,099, and the employee loss rate was 4.5%.   (3) Holiday system   COSCO Group provides competitive paid holidays, maternity leave, paternity leave and recuperate system  among companies of the same industry.  A summary table of various holidays of COSCO Group headquarters  Indicators  Number of days  Marriage leave  3 days  Marriage leave (employees marry at a mature age)  Additional 7 days in addition to marriage leave for  newly married employees  Maternity leave  90 days  Maternity leave (late childbirth)  Additional 30 days in addition to maternity leave for  normal situation  Maternity leave (multiple gestation)  Additional 15 days for every extra child given  Paternity leave  15 days  Funeral leave  3 days  Home leave for couples  30 days/year  Home leave for parents (unmarried employees)  20 days/year  Home leave for parents (married employees)  20 days/four years  Paid holidays (employees working for less than 10 years  continuously)  5 days/year  Paid holidays (employees working for 10 to 20 years  continuously)  10 days/year  Paid holidays (employees working for more than 20 years  continuously)  15 days/year    
 131 Labor unions of companies at all levels organized recuperative activities for employees in different times  and batches each year. The recuperative activities enhanced employees physical quality, alleviated their  working pressure, promoted the unity and friendship of employees, created a harmonious and relaxing  atmosphere, allowed employees to feel the warmth of working in COSCO Group and to love COSCO  Group, and enhanced the cohesion of the enterprise.   (4) Insurance and welfares of employees. In strict appliance with the requirements of the nations related  laws and regulations, COSCO Group has established social insurance system for employees, covering  pension, medical care, work-related injury safety, maternity and unemployment insurances, and housing  accumulation fund. ICOSCO Group has joined the social insurance of Beijings social insurance institutes  regardless of units and regions to ensure the legal rights and interests of employees. COSCO Group has  established complementary medical care issuance and traffic accidental insurance for all its employees.  Currently, COSCO Group is propelling the establishment of annuity system. The detailed implementation  plans had been approved by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission and  submitted to the Human Resources and Social Guarantee Department for putting up a record.   (5) Leadership selection and appointment. COSCO Group has established its enterprise leadership  selection and appointment management principle and procedure in accordance with the modern enterprise  system requirements. It also has implemented pre-publicity system. In 2008, 509 cadres have been made  known to the public before appointment, the company actually appointed 509 cadres, cadres appointment  rate reached 100%.   (6) Strengthening policy research and system construction, continuously improving human resources  management level. COSCO Group is to fulfill the study and corresponding implementation work in  accordance with Peoples Republic of China Labor Contract Law and Peoples Republic of China  Regulations for the Implementation of the Labor Contract Law. COSCO Group has carried out the labor  contract management and current employment situation survey, made an analysis on the impact of  Peoples Republic of China Labor Contract on human resources management and labor relations  management. In accordance with law and regulation requirements, COSCO Group has proposed  optimization measures according to human resources management requirements including the talents  thriving enterprise strategy and the change from owning to controlling strategic impact and  corresponding response measures; issues that worthy noting and improvement suggestions such as  democratic procedures, staff recruitment and hiring, contract signing, contract extending, contract unchain  and other aspects;   (7) Promoting COSCO Group Crew Management Information Construction. COSCO Group crew  management information construction is the key to crew management level improvement. Thus COSCO  Group has spent four year in inventing its COSCO Crew Information System (CSIS) and applied it in  COSCO Bulk Carrier, COSCO Qingdao and COCSO Manning for experimental operation. In 2008, expert  group examined and accepted the system hence the research and development work of the system has come  to an end.   In order to meet personalized requirements of different companies, and further optimize the application and  promotion work of CSIS, in accordance with the principle of activeness and steadiness, COSCO Group  actively coordinated with COSCO Bulk Carrier and timely resolved the technical problem that COSCO  Qingdao and COSCO Dalian encountered in the actual application of CSIS system. At the mean time, on  the basis of the collection of a wide range of advices and suggestions from COSCO Bulk Carrier and other  companies, COSCO Group focused on the comprehensive application and promotion of CSIS so as to  resolve technical problems of CSIS application.   2. Relations between labors and management team  (1) Working mechanism and performances of labor unions   Labor unions at all levels of COSCO Group fully expressed and protected legal rights and interests of  employees. They mobilized and organized employees to actively attend the production, operation,  management and reform, and tried to complete various tasks. They represented and organized employees to  attend the democratic decision-making, democratic management and democratic supervision of enterprises.  They spared no efforts to enhance the democratic, public and legal construction of the labor unions,  increased the number of activities organized and served for employees whole-heartedly, so as to construct  
 132 the labor unions into reliable homes of employees with complete governance structure, effective  right-protection mechanism, active working mechanism and significant functions.   Indicators/year  2006  2007  2008  Proportion of employees joining the labor unions (%)  98 98  99.58 Number of second-tier labor unions under the labor union of COSCO  Group  16 16  16 Coverage rate of collective contracts (%)  100 100  100 Coverage rate of labor contracts (%)  100 100  100 Number of labor protection, supervision and inspection personnel  (persons)  1,515 1,267  1,356 Number of IT personnel of the labor unions (persons)  933 635  465 Information collected by information personnel of the labor unions*  3,787 cases 3,073 cases  782 sessions Time-limit for pre-informing of key events *  14-30 days 14-30 days  7-30 days Pre-informing rate of key events (%)  100 100  100 Remarks:  1. The time-limit for pre-informing of key events of listed companies shall follow the regulations of the Company Law,  the Securities Law and Information Disclosure Management Methods of Listed Companies.  2. Since 2008, the information collector of the workers union adopted statistics of information data by periods.     (2) Labor Contract Signing Situation. In order to protect enterprises and employees rights and interests  in accordance with laws and regulations, and maintain stable and harmonious labor relations in accordance  with relevant provisions of the country, COSCO Group Trading Unions and Party Government jointly  drafted and issued COSCO Group Implementation Measures of Contract Provisions aiming at further  optimizing the coordination of labor relations and protecting employees rights and interests in accordance  with corresponding laws.    For the officially implementation of the Peoples Republic of China Labor Contract Law, COSCO China  Trading Union has organized the study and implementation of Labor Contract Law and has made detailed  and wide range promotion of labor contract system, party rights obligations of labor contract and protection  of legitimate rights and interests of employees. Labor contracts include fixed-term labor contracts,  non-fixed-term labor contracts and labor contracts for migrant workers. The above mentioned measures  have played important role in the construction and development of harmonious and stable labor relations of  COSCO Group.   (3) Employee Satisfaction Survey. COSCO Group and its subsidiary companies adopted the first party  survey to its employee satisfaction, of which specific form as follows: firstly, senior management  evaluation was conducted by group organization during senior management conference; secondly,  democratic evaluation of senior management was conducted by employee representatives during the annual  employee representative conference; thirdly, functional department organized survey conduction. In 2008,  COSCO Group commissioned Shanghai Quality Technology Consulting Firm and Shanghai Customer  Satisfaction Assessment Center to conduct the third-party employee satisfaction survey in adoption of the  form of questionnaire. The assessment scale and statistical method of this evaluation survey adopted the 5  ratings assessment scale. According to international practice, the 5 ratings assessment scale has been  respectively scored 15, 35, 55, 75 and 95. As to working environment, remuneration and security,  communication and cooperation, employ development opportunities, internal management and enterprise  development the six evaluation module, they were determined by the degree of employees concern.  Though information collection and data analysis, the company s 2 employee satisfaction of 2008 got the  evaluation score of 79.86, which increased by 7.32 compared with 72.54 in 2005, which was conducted by  the same agent and adopted the same survey method.   3. Safety and occupational health  (1) Safety Production and Occupational Health Management Mechanism. COSCO Group and its subsidiary  companied attached great importance to safety responsibility. All subsidiary companies and groups were  equipped with Safety Production Commission. Safety Production Office was set up as subsidiary to the  Safety Production Commission. Main tasks and responsibilities of the Safety Production Office were  
 133 insisting to the implementation of national production safety laws and administrative regulations, studying  major measures of safety production works, coordinating and resolving major issues in safety production,  guiding safety production work and offering instructive suggestions on the universal and tendentious issues  that occurred in safety production.   Under the leadership of the safety committees, the safety committee offices were responsible for dealing  with daily safe production and occupational health work, completing important tasks assigned by the safety  committees, regularly organizing symposium and summary meeting on safety product, conducting  inspection, evaluation and survey on the safe production, occupational health and environmental protection,  putting forward requirements and improvement proposals for the above tasks and timely reporting to the  safety committees.   The safety committees of ships were responsible for safe operation of ships, avoiding casualties, protecting  health of crew and preventing ocean environment pollution. They shall strictly perform the international  conventions and related regulations of local authorities and guarantee effective operation of safety  management systems of ships. In case of any emergent accidents or events, captains have the rights to make  final decisions in order to protect ship and personnel safety, avoid environmental pollution and reduce  property losses.  COSCO Group has set up its Safety Technical Supervision Department, all subsidiary units have set up  Safety Management Functional Department. Responsibilities included in charge of safety production works;  in charge of marine monitoring, maintenance management, ship resistance, marine and land emergency  response, labor safety, traffic safety management, safety production inspection, risk assessment, safety  health and environment management works guidance, as well as guiding the environmental-protection and  energy consumption works in accordance with the implementation of international conventions, national  legislation and industry requirements. Safety Production Office worked under the leadership of Safety  Production Commission.   Strengthening ships safety health and technical guidance as well as shore-based support. COSCO Group  has set up its ship safety supervision mechanism in the national major ports so as to conduct safety  inspections and guidance for arrival ships. This measure has strengthened the effective control of safety  management of COSCO Group. COSCO Group and all its subsidiary units have all established emergency  response and disposal leading group and working group in charge of supervising, coordinating, guiding and  dealing with the emergent incidents and accidents occurred on ships and on shore.   COSCO Groups ships and subsidiaries at all levels have established the safe committees, which are  comprises of top executives and main leaders of labor unions and different departments of the respective  companies. President of COSCO Group acted as the director of safety committee of COSCO Group  headquarters, top managers of other subsidiaries acted as directors of the safety committees of their  respective companies, and captions of the ships acted as the directors of safety committees of respective  ships. Safety committees were mainly responsible for implementation of related international conventions  and the safety production laws and regulations of the State, decision-making on safety, occupational health  and environmental protection, supervision, coordination and guidance of related works and investigation  and disposal of safety-related accidents.   Labor union of COSCO Group issued the Opinions on Establishment and Perfecting the Labor Unions  Working Mechanism on Labor Protection Supervision and Inspection. Second-tier labor unions had  established and perfected the organizational systems for labor protection supervision and inspection work  of the labor unions according to the spirits and requirements in the Opinions, propelled and assisted the  enterprise to perform labor protection and safety production laws and regulations of the State and the  regulations and systems of the enterprise, and ensured safety and health of employees in working processes.   Employee representatives of safety committees: chairmen and vice-chairmen of labor unions of COSCO  Group headquarters and its subsidiaries at all levels are major members of safety committees. Responsible  persons for labor safety protection and supervision of labor unions at all levels are main members of the  safety committees. In the safety committee of COSCO Group headquarters, the number of employee  representatives accounted for 18% of the total, compared with 20% in safety committees at all levels.      
 134 (2) Safety and occupational health work. Top management of COSCO Group has attached great  importance to safety and occupational health work. Early in each year, the first conference of the entire  system was safety work conference for summarization and arrangement of safety and occupational health  work. On Jan. 4, 2008, COSCO Group released the Guiding Opinions on Safety Work of COSCO Group  after the holding of safety work conference, requiring all companies to implement the opinions in details.  In 2008, COSCO Group actively implemented its Risks Resolving safety production works and in-depth  launched its 100-day Safety Inspection Action. COSCO Group comprehensively investigated and  resolved all types of security risks, strictly implemented the Two Main Parties Responsibilities, did a  good in-depth and meticulous safety work during Olympic Games and Paralympics Games. COSCO  Groups safety situation was stable for the whole year, safety works got significant effectiveness.  Various types of accidents statistics as follows:   A total of 60 cases of work safety accidents were occurred, resulting in light wound of 60 persons and  without any deaths or serious wounds. The number of labor safety accidents had reduced significantly  compared with same period of 2007.   Indicators  2006  2007  2008  Number of human damage cases  73  120  60  Death toll  1  5  0  Death rate for safety liability accidents per 1000 persons  0.014  0.038  0  Number of persons involved in work-related injuries  66  100  60  Loss of working time  3,379  4,470  3,049  Permillage of loss of working time  0.19  0.26  0.15  Loss of working time caused by accidents  12,064  35,757  24,392  Absence days  4,898.5  17,582  22,778  Permillage of absence rate  0.28  0.87  1.05  In the year of 2008, altogether 6 marine accidents occurred, of which 1 general accident and 5 minor  accidents. None heavy marine accident has been occurred. There was no machine damage or pollution  incident. Marine accident rate significantly decreased over 2007. Machine damage and pollution incident  rate still kept their zero records.   COSCO Group Marine Accidents Statistics  Year  Heavy  Big  General Minor  Total  Year 2007  1  1  3  7  12  Year 2008  0  0  1  5  6  Over the corresponding  period  -1  -1  -2  -2  -6    (3) Safety and occupational health work implementation measures  First of all, it is to optimize safety management mechanism, effectively promote long-term safety  management mechanism construction.   With three ones as its emphasis, COSCO Group promoted the implementation of safety production  responsibility. Firstly, COSCO Group adhered to the first charge person taking full responsibility. It was  clarified that the first charge person of all units and departments would be the person taking overall  responsibility for safety production. COSCO Group has strengthened its supervision and inspection to the  first charge person. Secondly, COSCO Group adhered to one position, dual responsibilities. It has set up  
 135 the system of leading group fully taking responsibilities. Responsible person in charge of safety shouldered  specific responsibilities, responsible person in charge of other works shouldered safety production works in  their responsible working scale. Responsible people of different levels have signed safety production target  management agreement thus the safety production supervision works have been assigned to the relevant  departments, companies and even to every specific ship, project, step and position, which achieved the full  implementation of safety production responsibility system. Thirdly, COSCO Group adhered to one-vote  veto evaluation standard. COSCO Group has optimized safety production evaluation system and indicator  evaluation system, which included safety work as important contents of company, department and ship  evaluation. It also carried out regular evaluation, regular informing on the completion situation of  objectives and tasks. The one-vote veto evaluation standard has been adopted and strictly implemented in  various kinds of assessments and evaluations.   In order to prevent and reduce all types of safety incidents, encourage the leaders of the company focus on  safety works and actively carry out accident prevention works, COSCO Logistics Shanghai improved its  COSCO Logistics Shanghai Safety production Management Responsibility Incentives. Under the  premise of full completion of annual profits targets, all corresponding companies were to take the following  conditions as the premise of incentives for the responsible person for safety production: firstly, annual  heavy responsible accident rate lowed than 0.5; secondly, annual car accident frequency with one million  miles was within indicators; thirdly, safety assessment level was above Grade D (excluding Grade D).  Should the above conditions cannot be met, corresponding enterprises and charge persons will be punished  in accordance with Accidents Resolving Implementation and other relevant provisions.   Secondly, the revision and optimization of rules and regulations.   In 2008, COSCO Group has made in-depth study, modification, supplement and optimization to current  safety management mechanism, system and regulatory framework so as to make the regulations more  adaptable to the current development needs. In 2008, COSCO Group has amended and issued COSCO  GroupO Ship Technical Situation Assessment Approach, COSCO Group Machine Cost Estimates  Management Practices, COSCO Group Machine Cost Management Practices, completed COSCO  Group Regulations (Maintenance) Compilation, Marine Rules and Regulations Compilation, Labor Safety  and Land Units Regulations Amendment and Assessment work. Basically completed the amendment of the  standard projects that set by the Ministry of CommunicationsShip Repairing and Maintenance System  and Ship Repairing and Maintenance System Inspection Guidelines. In accordance with the  characteristics of ship management, all units audited and completed a variety of safety manuals, inspection  standards, as well as evaluation and prevention implementation guidelines, which improved the ship  supervision and inspection standard and enhanced operability of ship equipment evaluation. On this basis,  the enriched and strengthened safety production management material basis including technology,  equipment, capital, human resources and other aspects further promoted the long-term safety management  mechanism construction.   erial Numb Name of Regulations Notes 1 China COSCO Ship Technology Assessment Approach 2 China COSCO Maintenance Cost Estimates Management Approach  3 China COSCO Regulations (Maintenance) Compilation  4 China COSCO Regulations (Marine) Compilation  5 China COSCO Labor Safety and Land Production Units Regulations Compilation 6 Ship Repairing and Maintenance Standard System Ministry of Communications Science and Education Division Standards Project 7 Ship Repairing and Maintenance System Inspection Guidelines Ministry of Communications Science and Education Division Standards Project China COSCO Completed Amendnent Project of Relevant Regulations in 2008   
 136 Thirdly, strengthening monitoring the safety management system operation and improving the  quality of operation.   COSCO Group and its subsidiary companies fully took advantage o the improvement and enhancement  mechanism of the system, continuously adopted internal audit, management review, corrective preventive  measures, customer satisfaction survey system and other measures to improve the companys system. In  combination of changes in laws and regulations, and collective circumstances of the company internal and  external audit systems, COSCO Group further enriched and optimized relevant content, improved the  consistence, practicability and feasibility of the system. In 2008, COSCO Group had 474 self-owned ships,  65 audit certification ships, 143 middle-audit certification ships, 134 renewal audit ships, 15 additional  audit ships, which all passed internal audit and inspection. In accordance with the standard requirements of  COSCO Group, in 2008, its subsidiary companies has all taken GB/T 28001 (OHSAS 18001)  Occupational Health and Safety Management System into its comprehensive management system, which  helped in identification and assessment of risk sources. Corresponding control measures have been set so as  to ensure that various types of risks can be controlled to a minimum acceptable range.   On July 24th 2008, in the National Large-scale Transportation Enterprises Safety Conference, COSCO  Group has been awarded the first Safety Integrity Company because of its good operation of safety  management system, good safety management record and integrity safety management of its employees  and ships.   Fourthly, adhering to people-oriented and strengthening labor safety management guidance  From safety action to risk solving, from rules implementation to regulations construction, the concept of  human life supremacy has been fully reflected. Firstly, the units have strengthened foundation  management work, ensuring safety and reliability of hardware facilities, carrying out census registration  work for dangerous source, important equipment and facilities; secondly, COSCO Group attached great  importance to its management system, strengthening the power of management source, putting great efforts  in solving difficulties and weak points in labor and safety management works thus COSCO Groups labor  and land production safety management network has been basically established; thirdly, all units  highlighted their key points, taking injury and death prevention as the most importance task which  effectively controlled the occurrence of accidents.   In accordance with enterprise characteristics, COSCO Group implemented its Clear project. This project  was to organize and regulation goods status and human behaviors so as to achieve visible working field,  scientific goods layout, standardized human behavior, neat and clear space and environment, and  continuous management improvement.  Fifthly, starting from action improving self-consciousness of safety and implementation capacity.   Focused on navigation safety, Shipping units of COSCO Group  launched its serious driving disciplines and curbing habitual  anti-regulation anti-collision and anti-leakage activity. Through  strengthening training, supervision and guidance as well as  improving the means of execution, COSCO Group put a focus on  its seasonal works, ship operations and anti-typhoon works. In  2008, COSCO Group has tracked 1705 ships in heavy storms,  1399 ships in frog, 3367 ships in and out ports and 1106 ships  under exceptional circumstances. In total there have been 490  ships being affected. Under the efforts of all employees, COSCO  Group hasnt encountered any danger, navigate safety has been  assured. Ship Aloft Work  Sixthly, paying attention to crews mental health, improving crew psychological self-adjustment  ability   COSCO Group attached great importance to crew training, in particular added Paying attention to crews  mental health seminar in its new crew training. Through the company News and other promotional  platform as well as publishing and issuing 26 tips in crew mental health and psychological  decompression, COSCO Group has launched a series of development and promotional works regarding  crew mental health guidance.   
 137 Subsidiary company of COSCO China opened its crew psychological counseling hotline-Teacher Zhou  Hotline in November. The hotline has gradually recognized by crews members and their families.  Reservations for interview and consultations including crews and crew family calls, text messages  gradually increased.   Visiting Statistics Table  Number  Distribution Situation of Visitors  Consulting Form  Total Number Crew  Crew Family  Phone  Call  Text  Message Interview  52  136  5  11 people  6 off route 4  2 people (one of who  has been referred by the  Trading Union)  1 personality evaluation feedback  194  Note:   1. Number of people refers to the total number of people who consulted   2. specific information of crew sand their families are not disclosed due to privacy issues     Consulting Issues Classification Table  Consulting Issues   Environment Adaptation  Interpersonal Relationship Affection and Emotion  Marriage and Family  Three people  Three people  One person  Five people                  Cross-coincidence occurred in actual consultation     Seventhly, good ship safety supervision work vigorously promoted the launch of ship safety health  work   Supervision system played an important role in safety management. Safety supervisors of COSCO Group  are all outstanding captains and chief engineers with rich experience. They have set their footsteps on  various ports in the national wide range. Through direct communication and interactions with the crew  members, they have offered instructions on safety works in various aspects including technology, thoughts,  morality and daily works. The crew members all regarded the instructions from the supervisors were rather  beneficial thus many of them initiatively turned their supervisors for instructions and advices.   In 2008, COSCO Group safety supervisors altogether checked 455 ships of COSCO Group. Investigated  and rectified 456 ship defects and proposed 1737 suggestions. Also, 1063 crews from 320 ships have been  taken part in the Ship Collision Rules examination, 90.4% of the participated crews scores more than 80.   Eighthly, carrying out various safety activities and promoting safety culture construction and risk  solving works  Firstly, it was to carryout risk solving and anti activities. In accordance with management system  requirements, it was to standardize the risk solving works. Risk solving works and anti activities, combined  with industry characteristics, combined with self-examination and supervision as well as inspection, were  to be resolved and fulfilled with strengthening works in the code of conduct, equipment and facilities,  production environment and other aspects. This helped further establish and improve long-tern  investigation and management mechanism, deepen risk solving management works. COSCO Group has  strengthened its working vigor in major infrastructure, facilities and construction projects. COSCO Group  has strictly strengthened its qualification examination, supervision process and execution power.  Identifying, researching and solving problems were the main working theme during the process.   Anti Activities safety inspections statistics table   Serial No.  Unit  Defects found  Rectification  Rectification  Following-ups  Rectification  Rate  1  COSCON  225 225 0  100.00% 2  COSCO Bulk Carrier  2,153 2,128 25  98.84% 3  COSCO Guangzhou  1,124 1,124 0  100.00% 4  COSCO Qingdao  827 813 14  98.31% 
 138 5  COSCO Dalian  311 304 7  97.75% 6  COSCO Xiamen  120 118 2  98.33% 7  COSCO Hong Kong  889 717 172  80.65% 8  China Marine Bunker  211 209 2  99.05%   Total  5,860 5,638 222  96.2% Secondly, COSCO Group actively carried out its 2008 National Safety Production Month activity with  the theme of risk solving and accident prevention. COSCO Group and its subsidiary companies have set  up Safety Production Month activity leading group and particularly set up leading group office. COSCO  Group has formulated its 2008 Safety Production Month Activity Proposal of which content covered a  wide range, focused on the latest events and combined the actual situation of COSCO Group. With Safety  Production Month Activity as the opportunity, in combination of 100-day Safety Production and  Supervision Action, COSCO Group comprehensively promoted the development of its Year of Risk  Solving and Anti Activities and carried out down-to-earth implementation. In addition, COSCO Group  has arranged and deployed various practical safety activities with rich contents and new forms. Leaders at  all levels from COSCO Group have provided human, financial and material supports for Safety  Production Month.  Thirdly, COSCO Group Safety Commission has clarified labor division, goals and tasks, and established  safety database and long-effective management mechanism in accordance with the requirements of the  Ministry of Communications. COSCO Group conscientiously summed up activity experience unified time,  approach, standard and thus issued Notice and Implementation Program of COSCO Anti-collision and  anti-leakage Project. Every crew has signed the Safety Production Commitment so as to keep and  improve safety self-awareness and self-regulate own behavior.   COSCO Bulk Carrier has launched its safety training education activity in among all its employees in  particular focused on safety capability systematic training on its new staffs. At the meanwhile, in order to  do a good and detailed job in crew training and improve crews safety skills, in combination of training and  activities situations, COSCO Bulk Carrier has formulated driver education training plan in particular  conducted special training for new drivers. Drivers who have failed rigorous examination would be strictly  prohibited from driving. 2398 crews have received training during the activity period.   Based on main responsibility investigation, COSCO Guangzhou has taken a variety of ways to carry out  in-depth supervision, seriously organized investigation of the four machines and one furnace of ships,  particularly launched specific investigation of aging ships and carried out investigation and rectification in  combination of route, ship and goods characteristics. To the characteristics of each ship and route, COSCO  Guangzhou has made specific arrangement and closely tracked and guided the entire process, developed  guidelines and incorporated into the system regarding cargo stowage, banding, maintenance and handling  in consideration of real practices. COSCO Guangzhou and other shipping companies further deepened  safety works, innovated forms, expanded resources and initiated the crew family members to concern and  support the enterprises safety transportation production. The Family and Safety  activity has been  launched among crew family members. In various forms such as safety seminars, creative safety culture  works, safety speech contest and safety keynote contest, via the Family Line, safety wishes has been  passed to general crew members thus enhanced the safety awareness of crew members and promoted the  implementation of safety rules and regulations.  Since the launch of the activity, in accordance with corresponding requirements, COSCO Qingdao has  made special training to all its crew members in particular drivers, engineers and staffs. 2270 employees  have taken the training with the coverage rate of 100%. Drivers and engineers were required to take  monthly examinations, a total number of 728 drivers and engineers scores good or above.   The entire system of COSCO Shipyard has adopted various propaganda methods to promote enterprise  safety culture, which has formed strong safety atmosphere in the enterprise. COSCO Shipyard Zhoushan  has carried out its Safety Production Month signature activity with the theme of Safety is Life.   COSCO Shipyard Dalian has formulated its Employee Family Member Safety Knowledge Reading.  Contents included common sense regarding electricity and gas usage, escape from fire place, a variety of  emergency measure and other basic safety knowledge, aiming at enhance safety awareness among  
 139 employees through family safety education.   In 2008, COSCO Guangzhou The Taiankou and COSCO Dalian Zhonghuo Yingkou Branch Company  stand out in the national Ankang Cup competition and have been awarded 2007 National Ankang Cup  Competition Winning Team by China Federation of Trade Unions and the State Administration of Safety  Production and Supervision Management. The Taiankouof COSCO Guangzhou has been awarded the  National Pioneer Worker by China Federation of Trade Unions.   In 2008, the ship and ship team safety competition that jointly carried out by Chinas Construction of  Seafarers Union and Department of Transportation Safety of Transportation Board, 12 ships and 7 teams  from COSCO Group has been awarded the honorary title of National Water Transportation System  Excellent Safety Ship and Excellent Safety Team.    Ninthly, firmly adhering to comprehensive emergency management work and constantly optimizing  emergency plan system   COSCO Group further strengthened its emergency management work, optimized the preparation and  amendment work of emergency plans at all levels and got emergency plan, rescue team, mechanism linkage  and recovery measures all settled. COSCO Group has strengthened its emergency management training  which improved emergency resolving ability of its employees at all levels and contributed to the linkage  and continuous refinement of emergency plans at all level with relevant COSCO Group and government  emergency plans.   COSCO Group Marine Emergency Solving Program Flowchart   1. Unknown phase                                   2. Alert phase                                 
 140 3. Distress phase                                   Inside and outside search and rescue  Ministry of Transportation, the State Safety Production Supervision  and Administration, State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission  General Staff Navy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs  Search and Rescue Center of the Ministry of  Transportation COSCO Group Group Emergency Disposal Leading Group  Deputy, Institutions abroad, Passing ships COSCO Group Group Scheduling COSCO Group Group Marine  Emergency Disposal Group  Shipping Company Scheduling Shipping Company Marine Emergency Disposal Group  Distress phase, alert phase, unknown phase  COSCO Group has played its important role in emergency disposal and accidents prevention in particular  natural disaster prevention. In 2008, COSCO Group kept its 100% record in anti-typhoon hence no  accidents occurred. COSCO Group has established its high-efficiency anti-typhoon organization and set  careful anti-typhoon emergency disposal plan and annually updated anti-typhoon main working points. In  2008, COSCO Group has successfully blocked 65 times of pirates harassment. None casualties or  significant property damage has been made which further proved the important role of anti-piracy  emergency disposals.   In 2008, rare snow disaster hit China Southern area, which brought great difficulty to coal transportation.  COSCO Group and its subsidiary companies promptly launched severe weather emergency plan in  accordance with actual situation. Through the joint efforts of COSCO Group, all units and ships, the  national electricity and coal transportation task that shouldered by COSCO Group has been successfully  completed. COSCO Group has won recognitions and praises from SASAC and other departments.   Tenthly, guiding by technology, strengthening     Guiding by technology, COSCO Group has established global severe  weather prevention security system. In order to improve its emergency  disposal capability, COSCO Group has continuously strengthened  technology innovation and new technology promotion and application,  updated its self-developed Ship Management Information System  (shortened hereafter SMIS). The system enabled shore-based departments  to grasp detailed information of ship facilities, emergency facilities and  equipments so as to provide positive shore-based support. In 2008,  COSCO Group has researched and developed its COSCO Group Ship  and Goods Transportation Online Monitoring System, which further  improved the dynamic safety tracking management, monitoring and  emergency disposal command platform.   
 141 The system was in adoption of the most advanced global communications network system, equipped with  global electronic flight charts and possessed of the global hydrological and meteorological services thus it  could obtain complete information and weather forecast information of the water area location of the ships  of COSCO Group.   The systems route design, query, presentation, video surveillance, emergency disposal system made  COSCO Groups non-gap tracking monitoring in global navigation come true, which provided reliable  technology and information security for emergency command and disposal. China COSOC was equipped  with new high-definition video and telephone conference system which provided effective guarantee for  emergency command access. COSCO Group Ship and Cargo Online Monitoring System Main Page     Ship Security   In 2008, COSCO Group and its subsidiary companies effectively implemented anti-piracy plans,  anti-piracy got great achievements.   According to the annual piracy report issued by International Maritime Bureau (shortened as IMB hereafter)  on Jan. 16, 2009, marine hijacking incidents reached an unprecedented new high in 2008. According to the  statistics of IMB Piracy Reporting Center (shortened as PRC hereafter), the piracy hijacking and hostage  incidents in 2008 were more than the combined amounts of relevant data recorded since 1992. In 2008, a  total number of 293 piracy incidents have been occurred globally, increased by 11% over 2007s 263. The  increase in piracy attacks could be attributed to the rampant piracy activities in the Gulf of Aden/Somalia.  111 piracy attacks have taken place in east of Somalia and the Gulf of Aden in 2008, which was nearly  200% of that of 2007.   Facing the grim situation of rampant piracy activities, COSCO Group has taken effective preventive  measures: firstly, carefully adhered to International Ship and Port Facility Security Rule, strictly stick to  Ship Security Plan and did ship-shore ISPS joint exercise so as to improve prevention ability; secondly,  conducted all year round tracking monitoring, periodically issued situation announcement and advanced  warning, intensified monitoring efforts to piracy activities and pertinently guided prevention work; thirdly,  shipping companies have established 24-hour tracking monitoring system in Somalia and the Gulf of Aden  water areas so as to be prepared to deal with emergencies at any time; fourthly, improved the prevention  consciousness of ships that crossed by water areas with rampant piracy activities, anti-piracy measures  should be taken action.   Under the joint efforts of ship and shore, ships control and response ability against unpredictable accidents  has been greatly improved. In 2008, COSCO Group has successfully blocked 65 piracy attacks and  prevented the pirates from the ships, no casualties or significant property damage has been made which  effectively ensured the safety of all ships of COSCO Group when through the water areas with rampant  piracy activities, crew and ship safety has been guaranteed.   Name of Indicator/Year  Year 2007  Year 2008  Piracy Attacks and Harassment  0  65  Successful Blocking Piracy Attacks  0  65  Successful Blocking Piracy Attacks Rate  0  100%  COSCO Group ship The Taibai Sea has successfully blocked piracy attacks. At 6:30 (local time) on Nov.  13, 2008, The Taibai Sea found a high-speed craft towards it in its left front direction, The Taibai Sea  immediately entered the state of piracy emergency defense. Captain paid close attention to the movement  of pirates while calmly commanded the ship adopted Z-sailing so as to avoid pirate ship. The captain  commanded the chief officer and driving assistant to call the near U.S. warship for help, on the other hand,  he promptly reported this accident to the company. The pirate ship ordered The Taibai Sea to stop. The  captain kept dealing with the pirates while manipulating the ship. The pirate continuously fired 2 rockets  which were approximately dozen bullets to the The Taibai Sea. Crews calmly dealt with the pirate ship  hence the pirates could hardly board on The Taibai Sea. After that, the U.S. rescue ships timely arrived  which made the pirates to give up and escape.   The Deping Sea from COSCO Qingdao was back to domestic south port from Ukraine Niuzini with  mines loaded, it passed by the Somalia and the Gulf of Aden water areas in which piracy activities has  become increasingly rampant. On Nov. 30, when the ship has not yet fully entered the Gulf of Aden,  suddenly a pirate ship fast approached from the left direction, in response, the captain of The Deping Sea  
 142 immediately pressed the emergency alarm.   During the 64 hours of anti-piracy battle, all forces and powers of  The Deping Sea have been mobilized and strictly stick to the  day-and-night prevention which successfully resisted the pirate  attack and harassment. The Deping Sea smoothly passed the  Somali water area.   Deping Liner of COSCO Qingdao successfully blocks attacks of  pirates.    Implementation of International Ship and Port Facility Security Rule  In 2008, COSCO Group has received International Ship and Port Safety Rules (ISPS) checks for 774  times, passing rate reached 100%. Since COSCO Group ships docked at various countries with different  customs and conditions, crews are required to strictly follow ISPS rules, conscientiously study and grasp  the non-invasive security check operation. It was required not to miss any clues, and to avoid being accused  of violations of human rights. Before the ships arrival to the port, the captain was demanded to ask  information as much as possible in various aspects such as security level of the port, basic social conditions  and local customs habits in order to take appropriate security checking measures.   According to statistics, in 2008, a total number of 9 smuggling cases have been happened and 30 involved  people have been found that seized before port departure. Compared with 2007, one more smuggling case  occurred and six more people were involved. Smuggling cases occurrence and people involved rate  respectively increased by 20% and 8%.   Indicators/year  Year 2007  Year 2008  Comparison of  2008 data with  2007 data  Number of illegal entry cases occurred  10  9    Number of illegal entry cases found  8  9    Capture rate  80%  100%  +20%  Number of persons involved in illegal entry cases  24  30    Number of persons involved in illegal entry cases found  22  30    Capture rate  92%  100%  +8%  On Aug. 28, 2008, in the PUERTO CABLELLP port in Venezuela, four smuggling people were found  when The Yihua from COSCO Hong Kong carried out is daily anti-illegal immigration check. The captain  promptly arranged specific people to do monitoring and timely reported to the police. Under their  assistance, four smuggling people have been seized by the police and 15 kilograms of cocaine has been  found. A smuggling illegal drug incident has been successfully prevented.   (4) Staff health and disease prevention. COSCO Group is a cross-nation enterprise with international  shipping, logistics, terminals and ship repairing as its main business. It is also a high-risk industry attracted  high great attention of the national safety production. In production and business operation, there are  sudden infectious diseases, unknown diseases, major food and occupational poisoning and other serious  events which may cause serious harm to the health of employees hence serious business losses and  significant adverse impact on environment and society. In order to effectively prevent, control and  eliminate public health emergencies and its harm and impacts, guide and standardize various public health  emergencies, minimize the health impact of public health emergencies on employees and public, ensure  physical and mental health of staffs and public, COSCO Group formulated Special Plan for Public Health  Emergencies in accordance with "People's Republic of China Unexpected Emergencies Law ", "People's  Republic of China Infectious Disease Law", " People's Republic of China Food Sanitation Law", "People's  Republic of China Occupational Disease Prevention Law", "People's Republic of China Frontier Health and  Quarantine Law", "Public Health Emergency Bill" and Domestic Transportation Health and Quarantine  Regulation.          
 143   Public Health Emergencies Flow Chart:                                       All shipping companies (or its subsidiary crew companies) have set up specialized medical institutions  providing medical assistance and services for ships and crews. The medical institutions were in charge of  guiding ship medical equipment and medicine management, setting medicine and drug procurement,  equipment, supply and distribution as well as in charge of health care management, epidemic prevention,  infectious disease control and statistics reporting works of companys ships and land units.    COSCO Group has assigned special funds and organized its staffs to take regular physical examinations  thus gradually established health record for its staffs. In 2008, against avian flu, foot-and-mouth disease  and other infectious diseases, COSCO Group has made relevant prevention knowledge education and  propaganda for its staffs, staff families and community members.     Health and Labor Safety Provisions Covered in the Contract   For the protection of staffs legitimate rights and interests as well as physical and mental health, the  contract that signed between the enterprise and the Trade Union covered a range of provisions including  working time, labor safety and health, labor protection, insurance and welfare.   (5) Labor Competition   The year of 2008 is COSCO GroupS Year of Deepen Reforming. Trade Union of COSCO Group  continued its Safety by my side, cost reduction and efficiency enhancement activity so as to guarantee its  staffs safety. Early of this year the Trade Union of COSCO Group further enriched activity content and  invented new forms of activities. With the concepts of safety and lean thinking, Chin COSCO initiated and  mobilized its staffs to fully participate in activities so as to maximize economic and social benefits.     Safety Competition  In 2008, Trade Union of COSCO Group has carried out the My Contribution to Energy-saving and  Emission-reduction and Pioneer Worker activities. COSCO Group actively participated in safety  competitions of national water system. COSCO Guangzhou The Taiankou and COSCO Dalian Zhonghuo  Yingkou Branch Company stand out in the national Ankang Cup competition and have been awarded  2007 National Ankang Cup Competition Winning Team by China Federation of Trade Unions and the  State Administration of Safety Production and Supervision Management. In 2008, the ship and ship team  safety competition that jointly carried out by Chinas Construction of Seafarers Union and Department of  Transportation Safety of Transportation Board, 12 ships and 7 teams from COSCO Group has been  awarded the honorary title of National Water Transportation System Excellent Safety Ship and Excellent  Safety Team. In the My Contribution to Energy-saving and Emission-reduction and Pioneer Worker  activities that carried out by Chinas Construction of Seafarers Union, The COSCO Asia from COSCO  Group and The New Shenghai from COSCO Bulk Carrier have been awarded Pioneer Workers of  National Transportation Construction System. Starting from safety responsibility and strengthening safety,  
 144 all units have effectively promoted the implementation of ship and team safety production responsibility,  which enhanced ship and team safety management level. In accordance with authority instruction and spirit,  Trade Unions at all levels has set implementation plan for energy-saving and emission-reduction activities  and combined those activities with Safety by my side, cost reduction and efficiency enhancement and  effectively finish the job with meticulous organization.     Central Enterprise Labor Competition   In order to comprehensively enhance staff working skill level, Trade Union of COSCO Group actively  participated the central enterprise staff working skill competition held by the State Assets Committee of the  State Council. In the final competition of central enterprise staff working skills competition hotel industry  that held in Zhuhai in June, COSCO Group has selected four players from COSCO Guangzhou and  COSCO Boao to participate Chinese food table layout, cocktail and other four competitions. Pan Ridong  and Su Shengbao from COSCO Boao have been awarded Central Enterprise Technical Experts,  meanwhile, COSCO Group has been awarded the excellence award of organization of central enterprise  staff working skill competition. COSCO Group has selected two staffs to participate the central enterprise  staff working skills competition forklift working skill final competition that held in Changchun in October  in 2008. Shao Feng from COSCO Shipyard and Yang Hui from COSCO Shipbuilding have won the bronze  medal and have been awarded the Central Enterprise Technical Experts.   4. Training and examination   (1) Training of top management of the group. COSCO Group continued to enhance the training of  leaders. In 2008, it has dispatched 7 leaders of COSCO Group, 4 department leaders and 9 leaders of  directly affiliated units to attend the training work of the Central Party School, the Party School of SASAC  of the State Council, Pudong Cadres Institute and Dalian University of Technology.   (2) All-staff training. Through continuous training to its staffs, COSCO Group has set improving staffs  business ability and overall capability as its long-term strategic measures. Every year COSCO Group and  its subsidiary companies sent its staffs to participate in various types of training courses in accordance with  development strategies and actual needs.   COSCO Qingdao conscientiously implemented the in-depth carrying out training year spirit of the 27th  employee congress in order to maximize its potential talents of its employees. With training and building a  learning organization as its goal, COSCO Qingdao carried out its training work in a planned order. In 2008,  COSCO Qingdao was with registered 1343 employees, land-based staffs who have participated in various  types of training organized by COSCO Qingdao reached 3066 people, training rate reached 228.3%.  Among which leading member, middle cadre training receiving rate reached 100%. COSCO Qingdao was  with 3466 crew members, among whom 1745 crew members have participated in training with various  types of nature and content, crew member full-time training rate was 33%.   In order to enhance overall capability of the company coastal management staffs, COSCO Dalian has  organized 60 batches of land-based staff training of domestic and international projects such as enterprise  leader training, scientific concept of development, the Global Compact, maritime business, shipping law  and practice, fuel quality, maritime transport oil volume, dispute disposal, emergency response, crisis  management, hull inspection, hull damage and repair, maintenance supervisor business, safety supervision  management, three-standard integrated management system, business process management, performance  management and key performance KPI, IT technology, labor contract laws and regulations, new taxation  laws and regulations, financial management, auditing, discipline inspection and supervision integrated  services and other contents. A total number of 575 people have participated training, which was 118% of  the number of land-based staffs. Averagely, one staff participated 1.2 times of trainings in a year.   (3) Various types of professionals training. As international and diversified large enterprise group,  COSCO Group attached great importance to its professionals training. In accordance with long- and  short-term development plan and objectives, COSCO Group sent its professional to participate in training  and learning courses of corresponding institutions and organizations every year.   In September 2008, Zhong Jiyin, professor of Economics Research Institute of Chinese Academy of Social  Science has been invited to participate in corporate management training. Training participants included  company leaders, seniors and part-time directors, corresponding charge persons and part-time directors  from corresponding companies. A total number of 70 participants have been involved.   
 145 Combined with company actual needs of production and management, COSCO Qingdao has held a series  of training courses for shipping industry such as shipping market training courses, chief engineer training  courses and captain training courses, a total number of 278 participants have been involved. In addition,  through training courses and outsourcing training, in 2008 altogether 133 people attended shipping industry  training, training rate reached 300.2%. Training participants from Ship Management Department and  Safety Supervision Department reached 192 people, training rate reached 468.2%.   (4) Three Three Hundred Talent Project Construction. Since COSCO Group launched its Three  Three Hundred Talent Project, it has conducted training on relevant staffs of the Three Three Hundred  talent pool. Thanks to well preparation, training participants have been highly satisfied. Training  participants knowledge and technology has been improved and updated, their comprehensive ability,  adaptability and operational level has been strengthened.   By the end of 2007, COSCO Group conducted its second round selection to the Three Three Hundred  talents which injected fresh blood to the project. Altogether 973 people were selected and of whom average  age reached 40.01 years old. Middle-level staffs accounted for 79.2% of the total number, staffs with  college degree and above accounted for 95.18% and staffs with bachelor degree accounted for 76.18%. To  get prepared for a new round of Three Three Hundred selection, corresponding department has made  serious communication and research with training center and timely adjusted the teaching plan. In 2008,  due to the accommodation and transportation inconvenience that brought by the Beijing Olympic Games,  Three Three Hundred was suspended. However, this project will be carried on in 2009.  (5) Bid for National High Skilled Professionals Training Base. In accordance with the requirement of  the State Department of Labor and Social Security regarding Notice of Establishment of National High  Skilled Professional Training Base, COSCO Group has formulated and reported its COSCO GroupS  Establishment of National High Skilled Professional Training Base Program. In May 2008, COSCO  Group, as well as other 157 enterprises have become the first group of base for the national high skilled  professional training. After that, in accordance with the requirement of leaders, COSCO Group has further  refined its Establishment of National High Skilled Professional Training Base Program, put forward  specific measures and methods, clarified each task content, charge units and competition time and issued to  each unit.   (6) Crew Training. In its 2007 working conference, COSCO Group proposed to pay greater attention to  crew team development and formulate crew team five-year development plan. In order to further strengthen  crew team construction and ensure the group crew team with sufficient number, high quality and  reasonable structure and enhance the predictability of work, COSCO Group has organized corresponding  units to formulate development plan for crew team in the next five years.   In 2008, as to the current quality and quantity situation of crew team of COSCO Group, in accordance with  the next five years crew team development situation, recruiting situation of Marine College students,  natural attrition of crews, in combination of Peoples Republic of China Crew Bill, Peoples Republic of  China Labor Contract Law and other corresponding crew labor management requirements, on the basis of  scientific analysis and summary, COSCO Group proposed its overall goals, ideas and concrete measures  for crew team construction and development, in particular proposed directional views regarding the  common and key points of crew team construction and development, which formed the development plan  for COSCO Group crew team in the next five years.   In June 2008, COSCO Shanghai first ship labor protection training course has been held in Marine Center.  In adoption of the method of combination of teaching and interaction, combined with Safety Production  Law, a number of national major accidents have been analyzed during the training. Safety department  leaders and executive officers from COSCO Group and COSCO Shanghai have made speech on the Trade  Union Three Regulations, Ship Casualties Accident Disposal, Industry Injury Insurance Regulations  and the  Required Conditions for Industry Injury Definition. Marine Center was invited to give a speech  on Peoples Republic of China Crew Ordinance. 58 crew members participated in the labor safety  training. It achieved the training objectives of high-level attendance, various training forms and good  feedbacks.         
 146 With training-oriented, long-term cooperation, mutual benefit and  common development as the guiding ideology, in 2008, COSCO  Qingdao and Japan MOL Coastal Steamship Company jointly  held crew training course, 38 crew members at different positions  participated in the training. The joint training method expanded  assignment scale which directly and effectively created benefits.   Ship Training Examination Scene   Attached great importance to the actual operation of intensive training, COSCO Bulk Carrier insisted to let  every pilot and engineer that has participated in training to conduct real operation with the use of simulators  thus to timely find and correct their incorrect habit via training and actual practice. COSCO Bulk Carrier  developed and designed 10 simulator specialized training scenes, organized marine resource management  role play, ship arrival/departure operation, narrow waterway navigation and other training lessons. In order  to enhance the interaction in training, for example, in large ship manipulation, after each participant has  finished their experimental manipulation, discussion would be held and attendants would express their  views followed by participants and at last, coach would give comments as conclusion. Trainees  participation has been enhanced. Trainees could acquire experience not only from their own practice but  also from conclusion.    (7) Migrant Worker Training. According to the statistics by the end of 2008, COSCO Group and its  subsidiary companies had 10924 migrant crew members, which accounted for 31% of the COSCO crew  number. Therefore, COSCO Group attach d great importation to migrant crew training and took safety  development as the basic measure for enterprise continuous and rapid development. In migrant worker  safety production skill training practice, COSCO Group has explored and developed systematic training  content, diversified training forms, intensified training resources and socialized training effects. Career  development of migrant crew has also been included in enterprise development plan and corresponding  encouragement approaches and specific methods have been formulated.   (8) Labor Protection Training   COSCO Dalian has organized two labor protection supervision inspector trainings, 174 people attended. In  accordance with company safety production circumstances, training contents included occupational safety  health training, labor safety notice and anti-piracy security work.   In 2008, in the two technical skill competition of hotel service industry and forklift industry that held by the  State Assets Committee of the State Council, COSCO Group has been awarded the excellence organization  award for central enterprise staff working skill competition.   Effective training and evaluation incentive mechanism. In a bid to improve the training effects, COSCO  Group connected employees skill studying, elevation and promotion with its distribution system and  provided corresponding treatment. It conducted inspection and evaluation on progresses of talent  quality project on a regular basis and took the evaluation results as important bases for appraisal  and reward of advanced workers. It also improved various talent guarantee mechanisms to create  good atmosphere and environment for studying and growth of employees. COSCO Group tried to  improve the overall level of talent team construction with the cultivation of high-grade talents as the  core contents and provided intelligence supports and talent guarantees for construction of  harmonious COSCO Group.   In the Incentives Provision of Master (PHD) Degree Pursuit in Active Service that issued by COSCO  Qingdao on July 14th 2008, the restriction on age entry has been relaxed and training incentives amount  has been increased. Meanwhile, incentives reimbursement procedure has been simplified. Those measures  have greatly stimulated the studying enthusiasm and activeness of employees thus enhanced the companys  cohesion and strengthened the incentive role of enterprise training.   Indicator/Year  2006  2007  2008  Top management team  10,363 21,278  6977 Middle management team 27,366 129,910  23,984 Total training time of each category of  employees (hour)  Total training time of each category of  employees (hour)  Grassroots  72,785 255,371  235,887 
 147 Top management team  74.76 64.17  71.96 Middle management team 47.83 39.04  25.56 Average training time of each category of  employees (hour)  Grassroots  39.85 33.99  18.14 Total inputs for training of employees (yuan)  22,091,495.79 67,458,638.40  41,220,843.63 Training time in public expense (hour)  631,213 1,108,230.51  980,028 Training time in personal expense (hour)  80,197 167,041.79  116,847 Training on safety management system (person-times)  12,514 12,375  39,973 Training on contract performance (person-times)  18,037 18,805  20,388 Three 300s talent training (person-times)  245 400  0 Training before retirement (person-times)  2,676 371  658 Training in holidays and post returning rate after getting certificates  (%)  100 100  100 Training rate on unemployed work allocation and training (%)  100 100  100 Proportion of security personnel accepting formal training on human  right policies or detailed procedures (%)  100 100  100 Number of lean six sigma projects  78 270  44 Number of participants of lean six sigma projects (persons)  1,459 7,695  71 Number of achievements of quality management team  350 335  387 Number of members of quality management teams (persons)  2,711 2,958  2,890 Training on lean management, six sigma and quality management team  (person-times)  3,877 8,087  2,741 Remarks: The Three Hundred training class was not organized due to inconvenience of accommodations and  traffics due to holding of Beijing Olympics in 2008.   5. Diversification and opportunities   (1) Gender, age and minority nationalities (foreigners) of members of management team. COSCO Group  has paid special attentions to structural composition in terms of age, gender, nationality and party when  cultivating, selecting and appointing leaders at all levels. Among 38 leaders of COSCO Group and  departmental leaders of the headquarters, 4 are females, accounting for 11.11%; five are aged below 40,  accounting for 13.89%; 2 are non-party members, accounting for 5.56%. Among 130 members of top  management of second-tier companies, 9 are females, accounting for 6.92%; six are aged below 40,  accounting for 4.62%; two are non-party members, accounting for 1.54%; one is of minority nationality,  accounting for 0.77%. It gradually formed the management team with complete specialties, reasonable  ladders and excellent quality.   COSCO Group has 4,188 foreign employees, of which, 1,665 are females, accounting for 40.9%. It has  formulated a diversified employee team.   (2) Basic salary policies and practical situation of male and female employees. COSCO Group established  post-based salary system within the group, determined salaries based on posts, distributed salaries  according to work and fulfilled the equal employment opportunities and equal pay for equal work. It has no  discrimination policies in terms of gender, age, health, race and religion. At meantime, it didnt pursue  equality blindly, and realistically allocated working posts based on the nature of the work and  psychological and physiological differences of male and female employees, so as to bring active rules of  employees in the work. Meanwhile, COSCO Group insisted on providing special welfare pregnant and  lactating female employees, better protecting rights and interests of female employees.  The proportion of basic salary of male and female employees is 1:1  
 149 Part V Human rights performance indicators and theme report  1. Management approaches  1. Objectives and performances   Guided by the systematic development concept, COSCO Group strives for the goals to establish a  long-lived company and to meet the requirements of the second performance evaluation period  implemented by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission. Abiding by the  national rules and regulations applicable to the company, the international agreements and labor standards  affirmed by the Chinese Government and other applicable industrial standards in terms of investment and  purchase, non-discrimination, rights to free association and collective negotiation, child labor, forced labor,  security guarding and indiginous rights, etc., COSCO Group fulfils its commitments to respect human  rights, prevent child labor, practice non-discrimination, and protect the rights of the local people, and so on.  The labor union, acting on behalf of the employees, communicates and negotiates with the companys  administration on issues related to the employees interests and rights, so as to protect the employees rights  to free choice of employment, resignation, and labor freedom, etc., and to promote a harmonious and stable  employer-employee relationship that boosts the companys development. COSCO Group attaches great  importance to the human rights investigation on its suppliers and contractors. The human rights problems  on the part of important suppliers and contractors may undermine COSCO Groups prestige, and/or result  in unstable supplying. Therefore, COSCO Group conducts investigations on its suppliers and contractors to  lower the companys management risks. In 2008, no events involving human rights were occurred. Besides,  COSCO Group made favorable achievements in terms of internal control system, investment, procurement,  training, caring to special group and collective bargaining.   2. Policies and regulations  Implementing the State Councils Directives on Matters of Migrant Workers, COSCO Group solved the  problems related to migrant workers, boosted the development of the company, and maintained social  harmony and stability. The Women Workers Committee actively protects the legal rights and special rights  of female employees outlined in the rules and regulations for the protection of women workers. The  corporate labor union signs collective agreements with such departments as the Department of Human  Resources, protects the legal rights of the company and its employees, and maintains a stable and  harmonious labor relationship. COSCO Group has formulated the Open Business Procedures and COSCO  (Group) Headquarters Open Business Provisional Regulations, and accordingly, the subsidiaries have  formulated practical plans and enforcement regulations in support of the establishment of a harmonious  enterprise. With its robust personnel management system, COSCO Group prevents child labor and all  forms of discrimination. The legitimate interests of the local people in COSCO Groups operational areas  are protected, and the companys relationship with the local people properly dealt with. Furthermore,  COSCO Group makes full use of the IT system and the Internet to promote the Global Compact,  familiarizing the employees with the importance of the Global Compact to the development of COSCO  Group and encouraging them to take active parts in the implementation of the Global Compact. IT is used  as a tool for the realization of people-oriented business, and the Internet as a channel for communication.  The employees are encouraged to participate in the management of the companys affairs and to contribute  in their own ways to the sustainable development of COSCO Group, which demonstrates the companys  respect for human rights.   3. Organization and responsibilities   The subsidiaries of COSCO Group have established their respective Employees Representative Conference  for democratic management. The relevant competent authorities in each subsidiary, such as the Department  of Human Resources, implement employee management policies. The company recruits new staff openly  according to work needs, signs contracts of labor and establishes labor relations with the employees on  principles of equality, voluntarity and mutual agreement and in accordance with the law. Child labor is  firmly prevented according to the relevant national laws and regulations and COSCO Groups recruitment  policies. Internally, all the employees enjoy equal opportunities at work, and male and female employees  are entitled to equal pay for the same work. COSCO Groups Labor Union is responsible for the  organization and implementation of the open business policies, and the secondary labor unions are  responsible for the specific work. Public mailboxes and complaints handling systems are in place at every  
 150 COSCO subsidiary, dealing with complaints from the employees with regard to human rights issues.  Women Workers Committee is established within the Labor Union to handle issues related to female  employees and to protect their legal interests. Also, COSCO Group has introduced the management  approaches for overseas companies which outline the regulations and requirements for overseas companies  to comply with local laws, respect the manners, customers and rights of the local residents, etc.   4. Training and communications  COSCO Group enhances the employees awareness of human rights and rights protection by organizing a  variety of training programs and familiarizing the relevant employees with human rights and rights  protection knowledge. To improve the companys capabilities to help the employees protect their rights,  COSCO Group attaches great importance to the training of Labor Union cadres, and organizes a variety of  training activities for the cadres every year to improve their comprehensive quality. The Labor Union  organizes trainings for the officials responsible for the open business policies and labor protection  supervision annually, so as to improve their abilities to protect the employees legal rights. Meanwhile, the  employees working in such section as the Department of Purchasing are given training in human rights  knowledge. The human rights clauses in the purchase contracts are improved and assessments are carried  out for the suppliers human rights environment. The subsidiaries focus on the continuity of training  policies in regard to safety management system, contract fulfillment, Three 300s, and the arrangement for  retired employees, employees on leave, and dismissed employees, etc. Guiding the practical work with  solid knowledge and policies, COSCO Group establishes its sustainable development information  management platform, makes full use of the Internet to promote the human rights concepts in the Global  Compact, and strives for the realization of sustainable development of the company.   5. Supervision and certification   COSCO Groups labor unions at different levels, formed by the employees on voluntary terms, not only  protect the companys collective interests, but also work independently according to the Trade Union Law  of the Peoples Republic of China and the Constitution of the Trade Unions of the Peoples Republic of  China to represent and protect the employees legal rights. The focus of human rights protection has shifted  from the specific difficulties and problems of the employees to their fundamental interests and the  establishment of rights protection mechanism. COSCO Group has formulated the Implementation Methods  for the Supervision and Evaluation of Open Business, enhancing the supervision and evaluation systems  and clarifying responsibilities. The implementation of the open business policy is regarded as the most  important prerequisite for the evaluation of advanced companies, the performance of the companys open  business assessed methodically and the quality improved significantly. Through such mechanisms as  democratic management supervision, safe production supervision and labor safety supervision, etc., the  employees rights, the recruitment policy and the implementation of human rights obligations in the  processes of purchasing are supervised, evaluated and brought into the overall assessment system of the  companies. Meanwhile, the employees supervise, manage and implement the tasks at work through the  Employees Representative Conference, and they also offer suggestions for the implementation of human  rights protection.                             
 151 II. Performance indicators  COSCO Group established its sustainable development information management platform, and makes full  use of the advantages of the Internet to promote the human rights concepts in the Global Compact. Through  the information platform, various parties can communicate effectively, and the employees can participate in  the management of the companys affairs. In this way, the employees can demonstrate their values and  contributions, and enjoy equal opportunities for participation and development. The respect and protection  of human rights is vital for the sustainable development of COSCO Group.   1. Investment and purchase   (1) Investment  In the research, approval and implementation of investment projects, COSCO Group lists human rights  performance as one of the required assessment items, lowers investment risks, and avoids any harm to the  Groups prestige that could impact the stability of investment.  COSCO Group pays attention to the human rights provisions in foreign investment contracts, and lists  human rights provisions as a requirement in the foreign investment contracts signed, which is in line with  the requirement of laws and regulations. By way of human rights assessment, COSCO Group clarifies the  employees labor rights, employment, wages, working hours, labor insurance and welfare, as well as the  regulations and arrangements related to the employees, taking into full considerable the protection of the  employees human rights in the economic entity.  (2) Purchase  COSCO Group attaches great importance to the investigation and supervision of human rights performance  in the supply chain during the process of purchase. The company performs investigations on its important  suppliers and distributors to prevent any possible harm to COSCOs prestige and any instability of the  supply activities due to human rights problems.   COSCO Group specifies human rights provisions in its procurement contracts, setting up terms for labor  rights, wages, working hours, labor insurance and welfare, etc, and exerting influence on suppliers to  ensure labor rights.   In 2008, a total of 19 contracts signed by COSCO Dalian with its important suppliers and contractors  included standards of human rights or assessment contents for human rights. All contracts used the  companys standard model and included health, safety and environment provisions.   (3) Human rights training  COSCO Group organized professional training on human rights. A  total of five intensive training courses were organized in 2008, with a  focus on the human rights contents in the 17th Session of the National  Peoples Congress, and 238 managerial leaders of the Group were  trained. A total of 53 training courses were organized in companies  from home and abroad, with 1,587 mid-and-high-level managers  trained. The task of intensive training was completed with a training  rate of 100 percent.   2. Non-discrimination  The non-discrimination policy is one of the major requirements of the International agreements, social  legislation and various kinds of guiding principles. COSCO Group complies strictly with the International  agreements, social legislation and various kinds of guiding principles in the management of the enterprise,  and establishes effective supervision mechanisms to ensure the implementation and practice of the  non-discrimination policy in all kinds of business activities. Discrimination events related to internal and/or  external interest groups in the business activities, including the race discrimination, color discrimination,  sex discrimination, religious discrimination, political discrimination, nationality discrimination, social  status discrimination and other forms of discrimination defined by the International labor organizations,  will be appealed to the companys senior officials, via the special general manager e-mail, complaint letter,  or the companys Labor Union. The discrimination events can also be investigated and solved through legal  means.  
 152 By the end of 2008, COSCO Group had received no reports of any discrimination occurring.   (1) COSCO Group provides equal career development opportunities for all the employees, adheres to the  principles of openness, equality, competition and selection, and improves its public recruitment system,  so that capable employees are promoted, the internal human resources optimized, and employees initiative  boosted.  (2) Women Workers committees  In regard to respecting and safeguarding the legitimate rights and special interests of women employees,  COSCO Group conforms to relevant provisions in the Labor Law, and at the same time, by establishing  women workers committee in the Labor Union, protects and oversees the implementation of women  workers interests, and guarantees equal promotion opportunities for women workers.   Companies affiliated to COSCO Group, including COSCO Container Lines, COSCO Qingdao,  CHIMBUSCO, COSCO Shipbuilding and COSCO Xiamen, formulated the Collective Contract for Special  Protection of Women Workers, specifying the benefits women workers enjoy with regard to marriage,  pregnancy, child birth, breastfeeding, promotion, assessment of professional titles and so on, achieving  equality between men and women and ensuring the interests of women workers.   Women Workers Committees have been established in COSCO Group headquarters and all of its affiliated  companies. Full-time or part-time cadres are employed, and meetings of women workers are held on a  regular basis to hear their demands and requirements and to maintain their physical and psychological  health. The Women Workers Committees actively safeguard women workers legitimate rights and  prevent their special interests against violation according to women workers labor protection laws and  regulations. To further enhance structural construction and improve the quality of women workers, COSCO  Group  carried  out  activities  with  the  themes  of  learning,  growing  and  making  contributions andcontributions made by women among women workers, mobilizing the their enthusiasm  to make contributions to the Group. Women workers organizations of trade unions at all levels combined  the activity of contributions made by women with the project of women workers making great  achievements, innovated the carriers of the activities, enriched the contents of the activities according to  the characteristics of women workers, and provided a grand platform for women workers to display their  intelligence and wisdom.   In 2008, according to the spirit of the SASAC documents and relevant requirements, Sun Yueying, Chief  Accountant of COSCO Group, was selected one of the Top Ten Chinese Economic Women of the Year  2007.   Before the International Working Womens Day in 2008, Chen Xiang, Deputy General Manager of  COSCO Container Lines, won the honorary title of National March Eighth Red Banner Pacesetter.   In 2008, the women workers committee of COSCO Guangzhou was chosen by the General Labor Union  of Guangdong Province as Advanced Group in the Two Projects Work and Advanced Group for  Women Workers Organization and Construction Work.  COSCO Guangzhou purchased Women Workers Health Insurance for all women employees, and  effectively eased the urgent needs of women workers suffering from serious diseases.   On the occasion of the March Eighth International Working Womens Day, the women workers committee  of COSCO Dalian initiated a Mother Education project among women employees. The project is  designed for all parents, mothers in particular, and aimed at carrying forward maternal spirits, improving  the quality of women to enhance the level of family education, and facilitating the healthy growth of  minors. Radiation-proof overalls were bought for women workers working on special posts, and  gynecological examination was arranged for all women employees to provide another line of defense  against gynecological diseases of women workers.   (3) At present, the COSCO Group's staff is divided into land-based employees, foreign employees, crew  members, and migrant workers. The number of migrant workers was more than 50,000, mostly  concentrated in the repair shipyards as contract workers. Migrant workers in the shipping industry  accounted for 7,000, mostly as dispatch workers. Contract and dispatch workers received the same payment  and treatment as formal employees, and their needs for old-age care and medical care were taken care of,  which completely resolved the worries of these workers and enhanced the cohesion of employees. All  
 153 workers could attend their work without worries, which fully reflected the humanistic management  philosophy of enterprise achieves development, and employees gain benefits. In addition, the companies  adjusted workers payments based on market prices and introduced new labor cost system, which played a  positive role in facilitating the development of a harmonious and stable contract workers team.   At the same time, COSCO Shipbuilding placed great emphasis on the creation of individual development  space and platform for contract workers. To better improve the skills of contract workers, Nantong COSCO  Kawasaki Shipbuilding signed a long-term agreement with Kawasaki Japan to dispatch contract workers  for studying and skills training in Japan. This win-win practice not only provided contract workers with the  opportunities to learn technologies, improve skills and increase revenues, but also provided conditions for  the company to cultivate and reserve outstanding technical staff members. At the end of each year, COSCO  Shipbuilding would select outstanding contract workers, reward the excellent ones and set up examples for  the others to emulate. Since 2004, Nantong COSCO Kawasaki and other enterprises affiliated to COSCO  Shipbuilding have set up Contract Workers Management Committees, so that more than 1,000 contract  workers now have their own homes.   COSCO Shipyard Dalian has set up lounges and reading rooms at the offshore bases to provide  convenience for the crew members. The families of some crew members are allowed on the ships, and  recuperation holidays are arranged for some crew members and their families every year. Since the  workplace of crew members are limited, the company made discs about knowledge on nutrition and health  for crew members, and distributed materials on health maintenance on the ships to help crew members  expand their knowledge about health. The crew members welfare and remuneration were adequately  guaranteed, wages and various benefits were paid regularly and in full amount.  (4) Cultural life of workers  COSCO Group attaches great importance to the cultural life of workers to promote the building of  COSCOs corporate culture, to enhance corporate cohesion and to facilitate the building of a harmonious  enterprise. Trade unions at all levels actively organize cultural and sports activities for workers and  establish various cultural and sports associations.     Activities in the Cultural Month  In September 2008, COSCO Group organized the Second COSCO  Group Employees Cultural Month activity. Highlighting the  themes of Olympic spirit and COSCO culture, COSCO Group held  two activities, the opening ceremony of COSCO Group 2008  Employees Cultural Month and COSCO Employees Family  Talents Competition, and the Aquatics Meet and Closing Ceremony  in Tianjin and Qingdao respectively. The activities were a great  success.   During the activities in the Cultural Month, the participants and their families displayed very high cultural  qualities, exemplified COSCOs corporate spirits of hardworking, patriotism, dedication, diligence, honesty  and innovation, achieved great results, enhanced mutual friendship and fully demonstrated COSCOs  special corporate culture and the harmonious atmosphere of the COSCO family. The influence of the  Employees Cultural Month was continuously enhanced. It has become a grand cultural event for COSCO  employees and a brand name for employees cultural activities organized by Group trade unions.     Establishment of cultural and sports clubs by all companies  To innovate the forms of trade union work and to enrich the cultural life of workers at leisure time, trade  unions at all levels of COSCO Group founded a variety of cultural and sports clubs, including singing,  dancing, swimming, bicycle and table tennis clubs, etc. In 2008, all cultural and sports clubs organized  activities, including lectures, demonstrations and competitions, according to the plans they formulated at  the beginning of the year.  The Singing Club of COSCO Group headquarters guided the members to improve their signing ability by  starting from basic vocal practices. The members were organized to watch high-level concerts during  holidays to cultivate high musical qualities. Singing contests were also organized for employees at the  headquarters. The Swimming Club assisted the trade union in the successful organization of swimming  
 154 competitions for companies in Beijing, and actively participated in the selection of contesters for the  Aquatics Meet in the Second COSCO Group Employees Cultural Month.   On the occasion of its 47th anniversary, COSCO Guangzhou organized the COSCO Guangzhou Cup  employees basket game and the COSCO Guangzhou Property Cup table tennis game for big customers,  along with badminton, football and chess games. A total of 13 teams and 160 employees participated in the  basketball game.   The companies affiliated to COSCO Container Lines organized a variety of culture and sports competitions  within their respective areas, enriching the cultural life of employees, cultivating a healthy corporate  cultural atmosphere, and encouraging all employees to love COSCO Group and work hard to make more  contributions to the development of the company.   COSCO Bulk organized the Welcome Olympics, Exert Efforts and Make Achievements, COSCO Bulk  2008 Employees Team Competition for Ball Games. A total of 13 departments, 50 teams, and 500  employee athletes took part in 700 games.   (5) Care of employees and their families  COSCO Group further adjusted the welfare and remuneration for crew members. Crew wages were  substantially adjusted according to the ideas of internationalization, marketization, dominance and  simplification, and an adjustment mechanism for the increase of crew wages was established. Provisions on  crew members paid annual leaves and wages before dispatch were carried out according to the Regulations  for Crew Members. In addition, the Group headquarters made arrangements for the accompanying spouses  of employees sent overseas according to the latest policies in Hong Kong and Macao.   In order to provide families of crew members, who were far away from the Group headquarters, with  timely help, to make them feel the warmth of the enterprise and to resolve the crew members worries, the  shipping companies established contact stations for the families of crew members, a total of 234 in the  entire Group, and formed a relatively complete and well-organized working network for families of the  crew which was unique in COSCO Group. This network provided strong organizational guarantee for work  on families of the crew.   On April 23, 2008, COSCO Group organized and held a meeting to celebrate the 20th anniversary for the  establishment of contact station for families of crew members from Dandong, Liaoning Province. A women  employees working meeting was held by the trade unions of COSCO Group at the same time to  summarize and report the work on women workers and families of the crew, and to discuss and deploy the  next tasks. In addition, to advocate and spread the spirit of selfless dedication of families of the crew, trade  union of the Group edited and released a book entitled Warm Harbor.     Consolation and relief aid after snowstorms and earthquakes  The trade unions of COSCO Group issued the Notice on Learning the Situation of COSCO Companies,  Crew Members and Employees Families Hit by the Disaster according to the situation of rain and snow  disasters in some areas of Southern China at the beginning of the year. The Report on the Situation of  COSCO Companies, Crew Members and Employees Families Hit by the Rain and Snowstorms was  submitted according to the survey. Letters of condolence were sent to companies and employees suffering  the rain and snowstorms in Southern China, and consolation teams were organized and sent to regions  seriously affected by the disasters to visit the families of COSCOs crew members.   After the strong earthquakes at Wenchuan, Sichuan Province, the trade unions of COSCO Group issued the  Notice on Learning the Situation of COSCO Crew Members and Employees affected by the Sichuan  Wenchuan Earthquakes in the first instance to all the secondary trade unions. All companies directly under  COSCO Group made all efforts to establish contact with crew members and their families in the  earthquake-stricken areas. They conveyed their sympathy to the families, and reported the situation of  families affected by the disaster to the crew members onboard and the trade unions of COSCO Group.   On May 19, the trade unions of COSCO Group submitted to the Group leaders the Report on Distribution  of Residences of COSCO Crew Members and Employees in Wenchuan and Other Earthquake-Stricken  Areas in Sichuan. Based on the situation of COSCO crew members and employees in the  earthquake-stricken regions, the trade union issued the Notice on Further Improving the Earthquake Relief  Work, requiring all secondary trade unions to further learn the situation of families of crew members and  
 155 employees that were affected by the disaster besides collecting statistics on the distribution of their  residences. Based on the situation learnt, the trade union submitted the Report on the Situation of COSCO  Crew Members and Employees Affected by the Disaster in Sichuan Wenchuan Earthquake-Stricken Areas  to the Party Committee of the Group. During the process of earthquake relief, trade unions at all levels  played important roles, actively assisting the Party organs to plan and deploy earthquake relief work, and  actively organizing donations among workers to show their love and support for the people in  earthquake-stricken regions. In some companies, president of the trade union led the teams to the front line  of the disaster-hit areas to visit COSCO companies and employees there. They also comforted the onboard  crew members whose families were in the disaster-hit regions to ensure the security and stability of work.     Vacation and recuperation activities   In accordance with the Labor Law and other relevant laws and regulations, COSCO Group gave employees  the full rights to enjoy paid annual leave. Vacation time was arranged for each employee according to their  respective work and personal application to ensure the normal recuperation holidays of employees.  Concerned about the employees physical and psychological health and the overall situation of the  enterprises, and to promote the implementation of annual vacation policy outlined by COSCO Group  headquarters, trade unions at all levels made proper arrangements for the holidays and vacations of cadres  and workers, organized recuperation activities for employees and provided a platform for the  implementation of employees paid leave policy.   The trade union directly under COSCO Group, under the leadership of the Party Committee and in  accordance with the Management Methods of Recuperation Activities for Employees of COSCO Group  Headquarters, organized recuperation activities for employees at COSCO Group headquarters every year  since 2001, and won the recognition and praise from employees.     Recreational activities for workers  COSCO Xiamen held Chinese New Year Meeting to reward excellent crew members at the beginning of  each year. The meeting was led by leaders of the company, and leaders from subsidiary companies were  invited along with some of the excellent crew members and their families to attend the meetings. During  the meeting, leaders from the company extended their heartfelt thanks to the families of the crew in  particular, gave them red packets for the Chinese New Year, got to know the difficulties and requirements  of crew families, and asked for opinions on the meeting to decide on the tourist destination for excellent  crew members and their families this year. Through this activity, families of the crew got to know more  about COSCO Xiamen. They trusted COSCO Xiamen and felt the care and concern of the companys  leaders for the crew members, and showed their determination to support the work of the crew members.     The activity of Golden Autumn Financial Aid to Students  Adhering to the principles of building a harmonious COSCO Bulk, harmonious families and never  make employees suffer from poverty, COSCO Bulk actively carried out financial aid activities to help  children from employees families that were in need. The company conducted detailed investigations in the  school performance of children from families that were not well off, obtained a general picture of their  school performance and did a good job reporting children that needed financial aid. At the same time, the  company conducted follow-up surveys and selected 20 children from needy families to receive Golden  Autumn Financial Aid.     Visits during Spring Festival  The Party leaders and trade unions at all levels of COSCO Group were very concerned about the health and  lives of crew members, employees and retired staff. They paid regular or occasional visits to the workers.  During the Spring Festival in 2008, trade union of the Group organized an activity with the theme of help  the needy to solve problems, and bring warmth and harmony to all families. Six visiting teams, led by  leaders of the Group and participated by personnel from relevant departments, went onto the vessels and  into the families of needy employees for visits. They helped the needy employees to solve practical  problems, and genuinely brought warmth to the families. According to statistics, during the New Year and  Spring Festival in 2008, a total of 12,142 needy employees were visited and helped, and 298 vessels were  visited, by COCSO companies. A total of 24,933 crew members and employees were visited, and 403 train  tickets were bought for migrant workers to return to their hometowns.   
 156 3. Freedom of association and collective negotiation  COSCO Group supports the employees rights to collective negotiation, and implements the relevant risk  assessment meaures in all of the companys business activties.  The Groups labor unions at various levels conduct collective negotiations and sign collective agreements,  on behalf of the employees and the company, with regard to wages, working hours, leave allowances,  health and hygiene, professional training, insurance and welfares, and so on, as a means to protect the legal  rights and interests of the employees.   In 2008, the trade unions of COSCO Group conducted the signing and implementing of collective contracts  and labor contracts to protect the legal rights and interests of the employees. In accordance with the spirit  and requirements of the new Labor Contract Law, by collecting employees opinions and submitting to the  approval of the 1st session of the Fourth Workers Congress of COSCO Group, COSCO Group signed the  third round of collective contracts. Trade unions at all levels made use of the implementation of the Labor  Contract Law as a chance to supervise the employment behaviors of the companies, to participate in  supervision and inspection of the implementation of the labor contracts, to assist the management of labor  contracts and to work hard to improve the signing and fulfilling rates of labor contracts.   The overseas subsidiaries of COSCO Group fulfilled the collective negotiation policy according to local  laws, regulations and the requirements of the industrial organizations to protect the legal rights of the  overseas employees.   On the Working Conference to Promote Harmonious and Stable  Labor Relations in Enterprises, held on July 23, 2008 in Tianjin,  COSCO Bulk won the title of Tianjin AAA Enterprise with  Harmonious Labor Relations in Tianjin and became one of the  first 61 companies to win this title in Tianjin. The winning of this  title will play an active role in promoting the establishment of  harmonious, stable labor relations in the enterprise and the  building of a Harmonious COSCO Bulk.   (1) Continue to deepen the openness of factory affairs, and construct advanced reporting system for  major events   Open business is a major measure taken by COSCO Group to promote democratic management. COSCO  Group headquarters has formulated the Implementation Methods for the Supervision and Assessment of the  Open Business Policy, enhanced the supervision and assessment mechanism and clarified the  responsibilities. With the assessment closely integrated with the actual work, the employees are given a  clear picture of the companys operation and are mobilized to contribute their own efforts. Special columns  and suggestion boxes for the open business are established, and the employees opinions are studied,  adopted, explained and reported by the members of the open business supervision team, forcefully  enhancing the democratic management.   To further improve the openness of factory affairs, the trade unions  of COSCO Group wrote new requirements and provisions into the  assessment system according to the requirements of the SASAC.  The form of openness was innovated, and the effective forms of  conferences on openness of factory affairs, online openness  columns dialogues between leaders and employees, workers  meetings, and theme briefing conferences were established and  promoted.   The mechanism for openness in factory affairs continued to improve, and the work was regularized and  standardized. An advanced reporting system for major events (major changes that have substantial impact  on employees (shareholders)) was established to report major events in advance. The advanced reporting  rates were 100 percent, which played an important role in creating an open, transparent and fair corporate  environment, in mobilizing the employees, and in stabilizing the teams and making scientific decisions.   Leaders team conference on openness in corporate affairs of COSCO Container Lines    
 157 COSCO Shipyard established a special fulltime management organ that is responsible for the work on  migrant workers, Management Department for Contract Projects, formulated and improved the  Management Regulations and Assessment Methods for Migrant Workers, and established the team  management mode among construction teams of migrant workers. Altogether 20 Migrant Workers  Congresses were established in the subcontracting parties to supervise the fulfillment of labor contracts of  the construction teams to which the migrant workers belonged, to improve the payment system and to  implement the social insurance system.   In 2008, the coverage rates of the Groups collective contracts, the report rates on major incidents and the  coverage rates of democratic supervision were all 100 percent.   (2) Employees Congress System  COSCO Group has established a multi-level employees congress system covering the Group, second-tier  and third-tier companies. The annual production and operation objectives and major issues are submitted to  the employees congresses for approval, and important decisions involving the interests of workers are  submitted for vote. Employee representatives are organized to evaluate the work of leaders on a regular  basis, and plans regarding corporate restructuring, closure, bankruptcy and resettlement of workers are all  submitted for the approval of the employees congresses. The Group managed to achieve openness in  factory affairs and soundness in organization, with factory affairs made public in a variety of forms and in  close connection to the actual situation of the enterprise. All work was made effective to play important  roles in creating an open, transparent and fair corporate environment, in mobilizing the employees, and in  stabilizing the teams and making scientific decisions.   In January 2008, COSCO Group successfully held the first meeting of the Fourth Workers Congress,  bringing into full play the rights of suggestion, approval, supervision, assessment and democratic election  and other legal rights of the Workers Congress. During the meeting, the proposal committee for the  meeting collected 93 proposals, the contents of the proposals involving all aspects of COSCOs  construction of Two Civilizations. All proposals of the first meeting of the Fourth Workers Congress  were processed and all proposers received responses before the end of 2008.   Type of proposal  Number of proposals  State  Total Number of  proposals  Operation and  management  31  Completed  System reform  18  Completed  Team construction,  education and training  15  Completed  Safety in production  5  Completed  Wages and welfare  15  Completed  Others  9  Completed      93  At the 2008 Working Conference of Trade Unions of Central Enterprises, organized by the State-owned  Assets Supervision and Administration Committee of the State Council, COSCO Group was selected as an  exemplary company, and the companys experience in promoting corporate democratic management,  protecting the legitimate rights and interests of workers and facilitating democracy building at grassroots  level was introduced.   4. Child labor  The employment of child labor and/or young workers in hazardous tasks is strictly forbidden by COSCO  Group, as this is the requirement in the Tripartite Declaration of Principles Concerning Multinational  Enterprises and Social Policy of the International Labor Office and the related guidelines of the  organizations for economic cooperation and development. The possible risks of child labor are assessed,  and measures to eliminate child labor are formulated according to the definition of child labor and young  labor in the Convention No. 138 of the International Labor Office.     
 158 Apart from complying with the International laws, the Group conforms to the relevant regulations in the  Labor Law. Complete procedures for employment and recruitment are established to prevent the  employment of child labor and young labor.   Strict recruitment rules and promotion procedures regarding the employment of ship crew are established to  make sure that no child or young person will be employed.   As for the rural migrant workers, COSCO Group clarifies all the duties and obligations with the signing of  related contracts, restricts the contracted companies and labor companies responsible for the migrant  workers, penalizes them according to the clauses in the contracts and reports to local labor management  departments once child labor and young labor are found to be illegally employed.   When engaged in shipbuilding and related work abroad, COSCO Shipping, represented by the people in  charge of the ships, will confirm the suspected employment of child labor and young labor, discuss the  matters with utmost seriousness and solve them properly if any illegal acts are confirmed.   The parent company and its subsidiaries stick to the administrative provisions for employment and  recruitment. By 2007, no child labor has ever been employed and the occurrence of child labor is precluded  in principle and in practice.   COSCO Dalian strictly complies with the Labor Contract Law of the Peoples Republic of China, and  Provisions of the Prohibition of the Use of Child Labor. The company has established a health, safety and  environmental protection management system, and a complete recruitment procedure to fundamentally  eliminate the use of child labor.   5. Enforced and compelled labor  The abolishment of enforced and compelled labor is basic human rights. The employees of COSCO Group  sign labor contracts with the enterprise out of their free will, and the Labor Union organizes employee  representatives to sign collective contracts with the enterprise which strictly stipulate the working hours,  working intensity, vacation and welfare for the employees, protecting their rights and benefits at work.  The employees are allowed to choose their own jobs. The company will not prevent an employee from  choosing a new job for any reason or in any form when he/she decides to resign. Nor will the company  restrict the employees personal freedom in any way. Compelled labor by means of paperwork and money  detainment, debt repayment, surveillance, and threat is prohibited.   In 2008, COSCO Group received no complaint or appeal with regard to enforced and compelled labor.   COSCO Dalian strictly complies with the Labor Contract Law of the Peoples Republic of China. Incidents  of enforcement or forced labor have never occurred in the company. In July 2008, COSCO Dalian was  awarded AA Level Honest Company to Comply with Labor Laws and Regulations in 2007 by the Dalian  government.   When COSCO Dalian dispatched seafarers and other workers to  foreign countries, the company implemented strict contract  management according to relevant international conventions  and national laws to protect the legitimate rights of dispatched  seafarers and workers. The company signed a total of 28  overseas labor service contracts/agreements with the ship  owners and employers, the rate of signing being 100 percent.  Safeguard clauses for the legitimate rights of seafarers and  workers were specified in the overseas labor service  contracts/agreements, including jobs, wages and payment,  working hours and overtime pay, labor protection supplies,  medical care and injury insurance during   6. Safety and security  COSCO Group organizes training programs for the third-party security guards, on the use of force and  firearms in particular, enhances education about human rights to prevent any harm to the companys  prestige or risk of lawsuit resulted from inappropriate behavior or measures. Meanwhile, the security  guards are made aware of COSCO Groups expectation with regard to human rights performance.   
 159 The security force of COSCO Group is divided into two groups: the land-based security guards and the  ship-based security guards. Some of the Groups land-based subsidiaries recruit security guards directly or  from security service companies. The guards are formally trained and given related certificates before  going on their duty. Other subsidiaries use their own employees as security guards. The security guards are  trained in human rights and related knowledge by the COSCO subsidiaries or by the entrusted security  service companies. Administrative provisions with regard to human rights are listed in the employment  agreements with the security service companies, and the latters work are supervised and evaluated.  The security of the ships is managed jointly by the security force on the ships and from the companies.  Institutionalized management is carried out strictly according to the national laws and regulations, as well  as the requirements of the international security rules. The management methods for shore bases and the  security plans for ships are formulated, and the responsible security guards are trained and approved by the  Maritime Administration of the Ministry of Communications. The training includes contents about human  rights and the prevention of human rights violation, and so on.   In 2008, COSCO Group reported no incident of human right violation on the part of the security guards.   Name of indicator  2005  2006  2007  2008  Company Security Officer  CSO  72  72  72  145  Vessel Security Officer  CSO  3772  3320  1618  1383  Percentage of security officers formally  trained on issues of human rights  100  100  100  100  Percentage of formally trained security  officers directly employed by offshore  enterprises  100  100  100  100  Total number of security officers directly  employed  278  346  2844  2853  Percentage of security officers formally  trained on issues of human rights and  specific procedures  100  100  100  100    7. Rights of indigenous people  COSCO Group upholds the principle of respect for the indigenous peoples rights. In the overseas  investment and corporate business activities, the parent company and its subsidiaries emphasize both the  localized management of the employees and the respect for the policies and rules in regard to the local  peoples legal rights and interests. According to the regulations of the local governments, the incomes are  redistributed to the communities where the companies are located. The companies also actively participate  in the local public events in the form of voluntary work and cultural communication, etc.   Based on the rearranged emergency planning, COSCO Group will take the following actions when  infringements are reported:     investigate the event;    implement the remedial measures;     evaluate the results of the remedial measures through the normal internal management procedures;     and make sure that no more action needs to be taken with regard to the event (i.e., the problem is  solved and the case settled, and no more action is needed on the part of the company).  In 2008, no complaint has been filed with regard to the infringement of the rights of the indigenous people.            
 161 Part VI Social performance indicators and theme report  1. Management approaches  1. Objectives and performances  COSCO Group commits itself to the fulfillment of social responsibilities, and shoulders its responsibilities  as a global citizen. COSCO Group strives to maintain good relations with the local communities and to  reduce the influence and harm on the communities when entering and leaving. The company makes  continuous efforts to construct the comprehensive corruption penalty and prevention system, upholds the  corporate philosophy of legal operation and standard management, and adheres to the management  principles of prioritizing prevention and combining prevention with penalty. After years of efforts, the  combat against corruption and the construction of an honest enterprise are successful, the honest, efficient  operation and the harmonious, healthy and stable development of the enterprise guaranteed. In terms of the  formulation and study of related international and domestic regulations, COSCO Group continues to invest  in the comprehensive promotion of the philosophies and guidelines in the Global Compact and the  sustainable development initiative, and calls for the popularization and implementation of the philosophies  in all walks of life. Based on the principles of honest operation and lawful production, COSCO Group  strives to promote a fair, just and open market environment and fights against industrial monopoly with  determination. The subsidiaries and employees never probe into the commercial secrets of the rivals by  illegal means. Nor have they ever been accused of dishonest competition or monopolistic behavior.   2. Policies and regulations  COSCO Group requires its subsidiaries to fulfill their respective social responsibilities in their local  communities, maintain good relationships with the communities, and minimize the negative impacts on the  communities. All of the subsidiaries have implemented this basic principle effectively. COSCO Group has  developed the COSCO Group Implementation Guidelines for the Establishment of A Sound Educational,  Administrative and Supervision System to Prevent Corruption. The companies have formulated their  respective implementation programs and enforcement regulations, incorporated the relevant requirements  of the anti-corruption system into the scope of comprehensive risk management, and carried out  anti-corruption and anti-monopoly work effectively. COSCO Group clarifies the relevant regulations for  anti-corruption, anti-monopoly and unfair competition, along with the work requirements for the  organizations, responsible personnel, and responsible departments. The companies under COSCO Group  always abide by the principle of fairness and honesty, safeguarding free, fair competition in the market,  complying with the anti-monopoly laws of the trading countries, upholding the principle of win-win  cooperation, and protecting the interests of the goods, owners and the stakeholders. Engaged in fair  competition and legal operation activities, the companies and employees of COSCO Group never supplant  the rivals by any improper, illegal means. Nor have they deliberately fabricated and spread false facts to  damage the reputation of the competitors. COSCO Group companies formulate corresponding measures to  guard against operational risks, improve the implementation capacity, investigate and punish disciplinary  offences, and strengthen supervision and discipline.  3. Organization and responsibilities  COSCO Group companies have set up their respective Commission on Sustainable Development,  established administrative departments and public relations departments to maintain the good relations of  cooperation with the communities. Moreover, the companies have set up inspection and supervision  departments and discipline inspection commissions which are responsible for the implementation of the  anti-corruption work. The main duties of these departments and commissions are: research and track the  national legislation and international policies and guidelines on anti-commercial bribery and anti-corruption,  develop and implement the corporate procedures and measures for anti-corruption, organize and conduct  the communication and education on anti-corruption policies and regulations, supervise and inspect the  performance of various departments and posts with regard to the implementation of the provisions,  investigate and deal with disciplinary offences. Administrative departments, such as the Presidents Office  or General Managers Office, are established in the companies. These departments are responsible for the  daily leadership conferences, receptions and public affairs, ensuring that leaders at all levels are engaged in  public speeches, lectures and other lobbying activities in accordance with the relevant procedural  requirements and the companies commitment and willingness are expressed and communicated. The  
 162 companies market or sales departments are responsible for implementing the relevant national and  international policies and regulations with regard to antitrust and anti-unfair competition.   4. Training and communications  COSCO Group is committed to the popularization of the philosophies and concepts of social responsibility  throughout the entire Group by way of employee training and communication. Community construction,  anti-corruption, anti-monopoly and other related content are incorporated into the training programs, and  these programs are organized in various forms and at different levels. The training programs include:  special events, theme essay competition, picture exhibition and other forms of activities. In this way, the  relevant policies and regulations are promoted throughout the entire corporate system. Through the  promotion of the construction of an honest enterprise, the main objectives, principles, major tasks,  procedures, measures and so on are outlined in detail. And through the well-planned, all-round, multi-level  and systematic promotion of the honest culture, the companies are guided towards corporate integrity and  legal operation, and the awareness of the staff members is enhanced. Unhealthy trends are corrected and  overcome, a strong moral line of defence against corruption established among all the employees. To  improve the work and management capacities of the audit staff in the Department of Supervision, intensive  training courses about related knowledge and professional skills are organized in the companies every year,  which has promoted the effective implementation of the relevant work. The companies also upload the  relevant policies, regulations and cases on the Internet for the employees to learn about, so that they can  enhance their precaution awareness and self-discipline abilities.   5. Supervision and certification   COSCO Group includes the requirements of anti-corruption and anti-monopoly as the contents for the daily  examination and assessment of the employees, and the relevant indicators are included in the assessment of  the construction of spiritual civilization. The companies supervision and discipline departments supervise  and assess the implementation of the provisions, and propose rectification measures for the problems  identified. By establishing justice departments and posts, the companies supervise the management of the  contracts and the implementation of the legal requirements. And by operating the supervision perfection  mechanism for the management system and the labor unions democratic management function, the  companies inspect and evaluate the community construction undertaken by the departments in charge, as  well as the business exchanges and cooperation with foreign countries. The companies organize inspections  for operative discipline and contract fulfillment to promote the implementation of the relevant provisions.  The State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission conduct regular or occasional spot  checks on the implementation of the anti-corruption and anti-monopoly policies on the part of COSCO  Group, as a form of external supervision.                                           
 163 II. Performance indicators  1. Community    Comply with the existing principles when entering and leaving the communities, and promote  friendly cooperative relations with the communities  COSCO Group and its affiliated companies, when entering and leaving the local communities, carry out  active communication and negotiation with the representatives of the communities and the relevant  management authorities to ensure full compliance with the communities laws, regulations and established  rules after entering the communities, minimized impact on the communities in accordance with the  provisions of the local authorities when leaving the communities, and thorough communication about the  potential events that may happen during the enterprises businesses. The prior consultations create a sound  cooperative atmosphere and environment for the enterprises and prevent damage to the communities.   In 20078, the affiliated companies of COSCO Group did not report any incident of disharmony upon  entering and leaving the local communities due to lack of communication. Good relations of cooperation  will be a basic guiding principle for COSCO Group in the promotion of good cooperative relations with the  communities.     Promote the cooperation with the communities when business activities are conducted, and  fulfill the companys responsibilities as a corporate citizen by making contributions to the  communities  According to the philosophy of global citizen responsibility, COSCO Group regards itself as a basic citizen  in the communities. By actively promoting the cooperation with the communities, COSCO Group identifies  the needs of the communities and makes contribution accordingly to fulfill its social responsibilities. In  2008, the Group managed to maintain good relationships with the local communities, and promoted social  cooperation in various forms. The efforts devoted by COSCO Group in the construction of the local  communities were highly praised.   (1) Strengthen the cooperation with related parties and construct harmonious communities  COSCO Group has been committed to the cooperation with the related parties in the communities,  including the community-related government departments, the military garrison units, non-profit  organizations and private groups, etc. Through cooperation with relevant parties, COSCO Group has  established a good image within the communities, and contributed to the construction of the harmonious  atmosphere in the communities, as well as the overall development, harmony and progress of the  communities.   The Boao Forum for Asia in 2008 was of the highest level, largest scale and had biggest number of  participants in its history. Major leaders from more than 10 countries and more than 1,700 famous people  from the political and government circles, scholars and experts, and journalists from more than 300 media  across the world attended the opening ceremony. COSCO Group, as the main developer and permanent  sponsor of the Forum, went on to participate in other work of organization and reception during the Boao  Forum for Asian 2008 Annual Conference. To provide high-quality services for the annual conference,  COSCO Boao ensured that service workers at all levels possessed skillful techniques and provided  first-class service support by carrying out professional training, simulated training and emergency  preparation drilling for the workers. The Government, the forum secretariat, representatives from home and  aboard, and news media all thought highly of and extensively praised workers from COSCO Group who  made not a single mistake in the work of reception and service. To facilitate the construction of Boao  Forum for Asia, COSCO Group invested and completed more than 20 projects, including the Boao Forum  International Conference Center, and COSCO companies in Boao employed more than 2,000 local  residents.   To celebrate the 25th anniversary of the partnership between Chongqing, China and Seattle, US, the  Peoples Government of Chongqing invested and built the Zhichun Institute at the southern communities of  Seattle, and collaborated with the Washington State Government and local universities to provide courses  on Chinese, cooking, Chinese architecture and gardening for primary and secondary school students and  local residents, in an attempt to promote Chinese culture. To expand the influence of COSCO Group, and  to improve the countrys image through this project, COSCO Group decided after discussion that it would  
 164 send 40 cabinets for the Zhichun Institute project and commit COSCO Container Lines Americana for  follow-up services. The task was completed successfully.   Due to the impact of the worst rain and snowstorm disaster in several decades, man highways, railways and  airports in central and southern China were paralyzed. Traffic between the north and the south was severely  disrupted. At the Guangzhou Train Station alone, more than 100,000 passengers were stranded during  spring transportation and could not go back home. To ensure the safe and orderly travel of passengers,  COSCO Guanzhou responded to the governments call and selected several excellent employees to  maintain order at the train station. In the cold weather, COSCO employees left the cold to themselves and  brought warmth to the hearts of the passengers. They won the praise of leaders and the recognition of the  general public. Meanwhile, COSCO Guangzhou assisted to maintain passenger order at the Guangzhou  Train Station during spring transportation and provided meals for 40 armed police officers who were  responsible for public security in surrounding areas.   (2) Active promotion of environmental protection in communities, and improvement of community  environment with practical actions   Environmental protection within the community has been a major concern for the COSCO Group. The  various subsidiaries have been focusing on contributions for the improvement of the ecological  environment by way of donation and reforestation, etc. COSCO Group encourages the local subsidiaries to  take part in green projects. COSCO Dalian, COSCO Qingdao and COSCO Xiamen have all built forests  together with the local governments. Other companies are also actively engaged in green projects:   In July 2008, a large amount of enteromorpha appeared along the coast of  Qingdao City, and had a negative impact on Qingdaos coastal landscape. To  maintain the cleanness of the beaches, and to ensure the smooth running of  the Olympic Sailing competition, more than 1,000 employees of COSCO  Group in Qingdao engaged in the fight to clean enteromorpha. The activity  fully demonstrated the sense of social responsibility of COSCO employees,  and further enhanced the excellent social image of COSCO companies in  Qingdao.   On May 8, during the 15th Operation and Management Committee  Conference of COSCO Group, the tree planting activity sponsored by  COSCO Guangzhou with the theme of fulfilling the Global Compact, and  creating a green home, was held at Shima Peach Blossom Park in  Guangzhou. Participating in the tree planting activity were COSCO  President Wei Jiafu, Secretary of the Party Committee Zhang Fusheng,  leaders at various levels attending the 15th Operation and Management  Committee Conference of COSCO Group, and employees of COSCO  Guangzhou. They planted the COSCO Forest in Guangzhou. President Wei  and Secretary Zhang unveiled the stone carving at the COSCO Forest and  leaders participating the activity planted saplings for the COSCO Forest.  President Wei and Secretary Zhang pointed out that the fulfillment of the  Global Compact, care for the world and environmental protection were  corporate ideas advocated by COSCO Group, and were also the obligatory  social responsibilities of COSCO Group. The building of the COSCO Forest  was the fulfillment of the Global Compact and a specific measure to protect  the ecological environment.   All companies of COSCO Group should continue to fulfill their social  responsibilities, and all employees should take active part in the activities to  cultivate the tradition of caring for the world, protecting the environment  and cherishing life in COSCO Group. The robust growth of COSCO Forest  in Guangzhou carried COSCOs wish to fulfill social responsibilities and to  promote energy reservation and environmental protection. It symbolized  COSCO Groups strategic measures to support the economic construction of  Guangdong Province and the city of Guangzhou, and foretold the beautiful  and promising future for COSCOs development.   
 165 In 2008, COSCO Xiamen invested another RMB 210,000 in the construction of COSCO Forest, building a  COSCO Pavilion and a plank lane amid the woods to provide convenience for the citizens creational life.  After years of unremitting efforts, the COSCO Forest in Huwei Mountain has become a good recreational  place for citizens in Xiamen and played an active role in improving local ecological environment.   (3) COSCO Logistics checks in advance the environment in the process of road transport to reduce  impact on the communities  During the process of logistic transportation of heavy and large cargo, COSCO Logistics would pass by a  number of communities. Before transporting the cargo, the company would conduct investigations in road  conditions according to the community environment involved in the process of cargo transportation, and  carry out adequate communication with local road management departments, responsible people for the  local communities and other relevant parties. The company would choose a time period when there were  few pedestrians and local people would not be disturbed, so that the impacts on local communities were  minimized. As for the transport of large quantities of dangerous chemicals and radioactive materials very  year, COSCO Logistics also invested a great deal. The company continued to update its logistics  equipments, importing facilities from foreign countries to meet the special requirements of the environment  on vehicles and to ensure transport safety and environmental friendliness.   (4) Participation in community activities in a variety of forms, and fulfillment of social responsibility  Subsidiaries of COSCO Group took part in social and community activities in a variety of forms, and  faithfully carried out their social responsibilities.   After the May 12th Wenchuan Earthquake, COSCO Logistics  joint hands with sina.com and opened a green channel for the  transport of relief supplies from Beijing to Shifang. The company  made a significant contribution to the earthquake relief work, and  gave full play to COSCO Groups corporate culture of Hard  work, patriotism and dedication.   2. Anti-corruption  In 2008, COSCO Groups Party group discipline inspection team  and discipline inspection, supervision and audit departments at all  levels deepened the building of the anti-corruption campaign,  focusing on the companys overall situation and central tasks, and  in accordance with the requirements of the Global Compact.   In the face of financial crisis, personnel from the discipline inspection and supervision organs in the entire  system applied the scientific outlook on development as a guideline, did a good job in discipline inspection,  supervision and audit work, enhanced the companys internal oversight, actively rectified the problems  identified, promoted honesty and integrity among the companies, prevented possible corruption risks and  provided strong guarantee for the honesty, regularized, efficient, harmonious and healthy development of  COSCO Group.   (1) Integrate the punitive and preventive system into operation and management, and further deepen  the construction of the anti-corruption campaign  The discipline inspection group of COSCO Group carefully studied the Work Plan for Building A Sound  Punitive and Preventive Anti-Corruption System from 2008 to 2012 released by the Central Government  and the Implementation Suggestions for Carrying out the Work Plan for Building A Sound Punitive and  Preventive Anti-Corruption System from 2008 to 2010 by the SASAC of the State Council. Based on the  overall planning of the Groups Party Committee, after conducting detailed analysis of the current situation  of COCSO Groups work on anti-corruption and collecting opinions from a variety of sectors, the  discipline inspection group formulated and released the Work Plan for Building A Sound Punitive and  Preventive System from 2008 to 2010 in COSCO Group, making a comprehensive and systematic plan for  the construction of punitive and preventive system in COSCO Group in the next five years.  COSCO Group attached great importance to the establishment of the punitive and preventive system,  insisted on the combination of the punitive and preventive system with operation and management, and  deployed, checked and assessed the construction of the punitive and preventive system together with  
 166 operation and management. The punitive and preventive system was integrated into the Global Compact,  and internal control was enhanced to prevent commercial bribery. With regard to the major problems and  weakness in operation and management found in the process of supervision, inspection, performance  monitoring and audit, the Group worked hard to rectify and improve them. In 2008, 1,611 regulations were  amended and 696 new systems established, amounting to a total of 2,307 within the entire Group. By  enhancing system construction, COSCO Group further standardized power operation and business  management.   (2) Continue to carryout self-examination and self-correction activities; further fulfill the system of  Three Important and One Big, and Seven Requirements   Leaders of party committees at all levels and the discipline inspection teams earnestly implemented the  work plan of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection and the SASAC of the State Council, and  carried out the self-examination and self-correction activities of Three Important and One Big and  Seven Requirements. The discipline inspection groups of the party committees established work teams to  organize and coordinate self-inspection and supervision in the Group headquarters. The teams had  communicated and talked with major leaders from 9 departments and more than 20 employees, checked  more than 600 documents on 172 investment projects, internal management issues and transfer of  state-owned assets dated from 2007 to August 2008, discovered problems and urged the problems to be  solved. A total of 945 leaders were engaged in the Seven Requirements self-examination activity, with no  one missed out and no dead angle left. Through self-examination and self-correction activities, the system  of Three important and One Big and Seven Requirements was further implemented.   Three Important and One Big refers to decisions on important issues, appointment and dismissal of  important cadres, decision for investment in important projects and use of big amount of capitals.   Seven Requirements refers to the seven requirements for honesty and self-discipline for leaders of  state-owned enterprises. They are:   Forbidden from using convenience of duty to seek profits for themselves or specific related parties through  fellow-business or connected trade;   Forbidden from providing convenience for profit-generating activities operated by each other, each others  spouses, children and other specific related parties;   Forbidden from abusing of power for personal gains in the processes of corporate assets integration and  introduction of strategic investors;   Forbidden from unauthorized mortgage, guarantee or entrusted financial management;   Forbidden from using internal information to benefits themselves or specific related parties in the processes  of enterprise listing, merger, restructuring and additional stock issue, etc;   Forbidden from suggesting, instigating or forcing finical and accountancy personnel to provide false  financial reports;   Forbidden from setting up their own wages, doing part-time jobs, and excessive issuing of subsidies and  bonus.   (3) Carry out in-depth supervision and inspection, further standardize operation management   The discipline inspection groups of COSCO Groups party committees and audit departments at various  levels focused on the actual operation of the enterprise, and carried out supervision, inspection,  performance monitoring and audit supervision to promote the standardized operation of the subsidiaries and  the preservation and increase of value of state-owned assets. The interests of COSCO shareholders were  protected, and the companys level of management was improved.   COSCO Group enhanced supervision and inspection with a focus on such aspects as property rights  transactions, the sale, repair, building and renting of vessels, procurement of materials and equipments, the  return of commission, and the signing and implementing of business contracts, etc. COSCO Guangzhou  strengthened its supervision of joint ventures, jointly operated companies and listed companies, and carried  out performance inspection and supervision on such aspects as corporate restructuring, transference of title  of property, listed trade, rental fees and repair of ships, voyage commission, internal control mechanism  
 167 and operation flows. COSCO Shipyard Group focused on power operation and supervision on major  businesses, carried out performance inspection and supervision on such business processes as material  procurement, engineering construction, labor outsource, and sales of steel scraps, etc. COSCO Dalian  focused on machinery management, and further standardized the performance inspection and supervision  on ship repair, ship facility procurement, and machinery management flow. COSCO Qingdao focused on  capital management and enhanced performance inspection and supervision on the transfer and use of funds  at its headquarters and subsidiaries. CHIMBUSCO focused on the strengthening of inspection and  supervision on vessel supply for domestic trade, trade of fuel oil, and overland sales, etc. COSCO Bulk  focused on the performance inspection and supervision on bid and purchase, construction of basic projects  and major businesses of subsidiaries. COSCO Logistics made use of the chance of establishing Assessment  Methods for Discipline Inspection and Audit Work to enhance performance inspection and supervision on  price difference management in shipping agency services, the procurement of storage and delivery facilities  and the operation processes of transport of large cargo.   In 2008, 508 performance inspection and supervision were carried out in the entire Group, with 811  companies checked, 653 problems identified, 759 pieces of advices for correction and improvement  proposed, 377 problems rectified, 35 systems established and improved, and RMB 14.4252 million  prevented and saved from economic loss.   (4) Actively carry out anti-corruption education, and further increase honesty awareness   The companies of COSCO Group actively carried out anti-corruption education activities that were rich in  content, diverse in form and effective. Besides holding democratic life meeting among party members,  leaders and cadres, all companies organized discussions about corporate honesty to further enhance the  awareness of honesty among leaders. All companies established the honest culture construction plan, and  carried out Honesty Education Month activities with the theme of observing disciplines, obeying laws and  devoting oneself wholeheartedly to work. A typical case was chosen for educational purposes every month,  and revolutionary tradition education, anti-corruption education and party disciplines and regulations  education were carried out, which created a good atmosphere for honest business. Discussions about honest  business and signing of letter of commitment were also organized, and most mid-level or above leaders of  the companies signed letters of commitment to honest business. In June 2008, the discipline inspection  groups of the party committees conducted a collective talk with all of their newly appointed secretaries,  requiring them to fulfilling their responsibilities earnestly. Talks about honesty were conducted with 51  employees dispatched aboard before they were sent, and with all mid-level and above leaders and  employees at important positions of all companies. In 2008, a total of 91,984 materials on anti-corruption  education were compiled and issued in the entire Group, and 479 report conferences were held with 29,487  people attending. There were a total of 671 courses for mid-level and above leaders to study the  anti-corruption documents, participated by 14,779 people, along with honesty talks with 9,748 people. The  awareness of honesty was further enhanced among leaders, party members and employees. COSCO  Container Lines continued to deepen the construction of corporate honesty culture, organizing serial  education activities with the theme of Honesty, Integrity and Operation in Accordance with Laws.   The culture of honesty was spread into teams, departments, organs at  grassroots levels, ships, families and projects, and further expanded into the  overseas companies. COSCO Groups mode for construction of honesty  cultureSix Progresses and One Expansionwas established. The  discipline inspection group of the COSCO Container Lines also published a  book entitled Purifying the Humanistic Environment for Corporate  DevelopmentCollected Essays on Honesty, Integrity and Operation  According to Laws of COSCO Container Lines, which effectively enlarged  the coverage of the campaign.   (5) Properly deal with complaint and report cases, and severely punish corruption   COSCO Group attached great importance to issues that aroused strong public concerns. With regard to the  problems in the work of corporate leaders and business activities found in complaint and report cases,  discipline inspection organs at all levels proposed advices and suggestions for the improvement of leaders  work and relevant systems and the enhancement of business management in good time, in an effort to build  a harmonious enterprise and enhance democratic management. Discipline inspection groups at all levels of  
 168 COSCO Group made great efforts in accepting and dealing with complaints and reports, conducted surveys  in time to learn the situation, coordinated the resolution of problems reported and protected the legitimate  rights of employees. Discipline inspection groups of the party committees and at various levels insisted on  having all cases looked into and punishing violations of laws and regulations severely. Meanwhile, all  settled cases were reported twice and every single case led to rectification and improvement, which  enhanced the strength and quality of case analysis.   In 2008, the inspection groups of the Groups party committees and inspection organs at all levels received  196 complaints and reports, and settled 91.3 percent of them. The inspection groups of the party  committees received 92 complaints and reports, and conducted talks with the reported and carried out  investigations into 16 cases. A total of 35 cases were checked in the first instance, with a settlement rate of  91.4 percent. Altogether 27 cases were recorded, 25 settled, with a settlement rate of 92.6 percent. Twenty  four people received administrative sanction, and 5 sentenced in accordance with laws by the judiciary. A  total of RMB 3.4189 million was saved from economic loss. Through the investigations, violations of laws  and regulations were effectively punished.   (6) Strengthening of internal audit and promotion of further improvement of operation and  management   In 2008, according to the arrangements and requirements for audit work from superior organs and  departments, including the SASAC of the State Council, the Audit Commission, the Ministry of  Communications and China Internal Audit Association, audit departments at all levels of COSCO Group  closely related to the development needs of the companies, carefully fulfilled the responsibility of audit,  supervision and service, comprehensive arranged the audit projects, actively cleared up dead angles in  supervision, and continuously enhanced internal control, audit, and risk management audit and integration.  All financial and performance audit work was consolidated and deepened, with a variety of work actively  carried out. These included economic accountability audit, audit of financial revenue and expenditure, risk  management audit, internal control audit, engineering construction audit, machinery management audit,  vessel repair audit, supply procurement audit and assessment after decision making. Meanwhile, audit  management, system construction and team development were paid close attention to, which provided  strong guarantee for the healthy development of the Group. A total of 7,339 audit projects were completed  throughout the year, with 2,826 advices and suggestion for audit proposed, RMB 590,000 undisciplined use  of capital found out and RMB 146.36 million saved from unnecessary expenditure or economic loss.   3. Public policies  (1) Position for public policies, and participation in developing and advocating public policies   COSCO Group, as a participant in the Global Compact, has always been committed to the promotion of  global economic development and the fulfillment of the Global Compact and sustainable development. To  promote the fulfillment of social responsibilities, fight against commercial bribery and industrial  monopolies, COSCO Group actively participated in relevant national, industrial and international activities,  displaying the companys philosophy and awareness at management level, and making relevant promises to  the public through a variety of effective channels, in accordance with the principles of establishing a fair,  just and open market competition environment. COSCO Group also participated in the research and  formulation of relevant international conventions and relevant national rules and regulations. It engaged in  the communications and exchanges on economic, environmental and social affairs in the international  community and in China with the mind and attitude of a transnational enterprise. It also strived to enhance  the Global Compact. In terms of daily public policies, President Wei Jiafu used to report the benefits of  fulfilling the Global Compact and Social Responsibility to competent authorities in China, providing the  latter with a basis to improve the nation and peoples anti-corruption ability and to elevate the overall  awareness for fulfilling social responsibilities across the country by using the methods of the Global  Compact and Social Responsibility.   Vice President Zhang Fusheng submitted proposals to the First Session of the Eleventh National  Peoples Congress  As a representative of the Eleventh National Peoples Congress, Vice President Zhang Fusheng submitted  proposals to the Eleventh National Peoples Congress on behalf of COSCO Group to promote the  formulation of policies. He proposed a total of 20 plans and suggestion which were all considered and  
 169 adopted by the National Peoples Congress and the Government. These included the Proposal to Establish  National Shipping Day, On the Release of Seafarers Act and Seamens Bill, About Further Standardizing  the Management of Chinas Third-Party Logistics Industry and Promoting the Development of Third-Party  Logistics Industry, Suggestions on Safeguarding Safety of Chinas Petroleum Import and Developing  Chinas Tanker Fleets, Suggestions on the Approval and Implementation of 2006 Maritime Labor  Convention, Suggestions on Strengthening the Cultivation of Talents Among Chinese Seafarers, and  Suggestions on Implementation of Flexible Policy with Regard to Hanging Five Star Flag on Vessels, etc.  China has now set up a National Shipping Day and released the Seamens Regulation of Peoples Republic  of China. These proposals and plans, which were closely related to the shipping industry, outlined COSCO  Groups track of scientific development and fully demonstrated COSCO Groups cause to boost the  revitalization of Chinas shipping industry and to realize sustainable development. On March 5, 2008, Vice  President Zhang Fusheng attended the First Session of the Eleventh National Peoples Congress, and  submitted 6 suggestions, including On Accelerating the Formulation of State-Owned Assets Act,  Suggestions on Facilitating the Rapid and High-Quality Development of State-owned Enterprises,  Suggestions on Adopting Tonnage Tax Policy in the Shipping Industry, On Accelerating the Formulation  of Nationwide Unified Social Insurance Relations Transfer Policy, Suggestions on Solving the Problem of  Connecting Employees Trans-Regional Social Insurance Relations, On Solving the Difficulty of Lack of  Seafarers, Suggestions on Providing the Construction of Shipping Industry with Talented People, and  Suggestions on Strengthening Macro-Control in Shipbuilding Industry in China.   Vice President Chen Hongsheng met with Swedish Secretary of State   On February 29, 2009, COSCO Group Vice President Cheng Hongsheng met with visiting Swedish  Secretary of the State Ola Altera and Swedish Ambassador in China Mikael Lindstrom at COSCO Plaza.  The two parties had in-depth discussions and exchanges on such issues as corporate sustainable  development and global corporate citizen, etc.   President Wei Jiafu met with Ms. He Jing, President of Temasek Group   On April 15, 2008, COSCO Group President Wei Jiafu met with Ms.  He Jing, President of Temasek Group at Temasek Headquarters  during his visit in Singapore. President Wei and Ms. He Jing  exchanged their views on issues of common interest, including the  trends of global economy, capital market and corporate social  responsibility, etc.   Vice President Xu Lirong attended Ninth International Road and Water Transport Technology and  Facility Exhibition and 2008 China Communications Development Forum   On April 24, 2008, Vice President Xu Lirong attended on behalf of COSCO Group the opening ceremony  of the Ninth International Road and Water Transport Technology and Facility Exhibition sponsored by the  Ministry of Communications and Transport at Beijing Exhibition Hall. After the opening ceremony, he  accompanied Weng Mengyong, Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport, to inspect the booth of  COSCO Group. In the afternoon, Vice President Xu Lirong attended on behalf of COSCO Group the 2008  China Communications Development Forum sponsored by the Ministry of Communications and Transport  and the Science Institute of the Ministry of Communications, and delivered a speech entitled Innovation  and Pilotage: Building New Ocean Shipping Enterprises, introducing COSCO Groups innovative practice  as a large state-owned shipping enterprise.   COSCO participanted in Boao Modern Logistics and Freeport International Forum  On June 8, 2008, Vice President Xu Lirong attended the Boao  Modern Logistics and Freeport International Forum held in Ningbo,  and delivered a speech entitled Cooperation Between Ports and  Shipping Companies for Sustainable Development at the opening  ceremony, introducing COSCOs understanding of the importance  of cooperation between and common development of shipping  companies and ports, as well as COSCOs successful practice in this  field. Ye Weilong, General Manager of COSCO Logistics,  delivered a speech at the sub-forum of Contingency and Rapid  
 170 Response in Event of Logistics Strategic Emergencies, introducing  COSCO Logistics preparation for quick response in pre-arranged  planning, professional team and drilling, along with its quick  response to the Wenchuan Earthquake on May 12 and the opening  of green channel for transport of relief supplies.   (2) Donations of money and goods to the political parties, politicians and institutions in various  countries  COSCO Group develops its businesses in accordance with the principle of fair competition, and does not  resort to political donations for favorable treatments and benefits. COSCO Group is strongly against any  form of unfair competition.   4. Anti-competitive practices  COSCO Group encourages fair competition, encourages fair competition and does not practice dumping or  monopoly.   The products, services and prices of COSCO Group show the following features: high-quality, high-grade,  high-technology, low-cost and low-consumption. COSCO Group promotes its businesses in the following  ways: bring forth new ideas and new products, establish credibility, and consciously protect the interests of  related parties.   COSCO Group upholds the following principles to promote sales and accumulate credibility: comply with  the laws and regulations of the country, respect the needs of the customers, and gain the trust and praise  from the customers and the society with actual deeds.   COSCO Group plays an active part in the promotion of the Anti-Monopoly Law of the Peoples Republic  of China approved on August 30th, 2007 by the 29th meeting of the Tenth Standing Committee of the  National Peoples Congress of the PRC. COSCO Group, as a promoter for the formulation and  implementation of this law, complies with the requirements in the Anti-Monopoly Law, protects fair  competition in the market, improves the efficiency of economic operation, safeguards the interests of the  consumers and the public, and powers the health development of the market economy.   5. Conformity with laws and regulations  As a leader of the shipping industry in China, COSCO Group sticks to the relevant rules and regulations in  the management of the enterprise, and as a pioneer in the observing of disciplines and laws, COSCO Group  abides by the laws and prioritizes the prevention of legal risks in daily operation. In 2008, no incident of  penalties for violating laws and regulations ever occurred.   Guided by the Office of Legal Advice in the COSCO Group headquarters, the Group subscribes to the  relevant databases and publications for laws and regulations of the State Information Center, learns about  and tracks the relevant international conventions, laws and regulations home and abroad. As for the  international legal environment, COSCO Group mainly focuses on the formulation of the United Nations  Convention on the Law of transport, and for the domestic legal environment, the main concern is the  Anti-monopoly Law, the Labor Contract Law and Enterprise Income Tax Law. COSCO Group has  collected the contracts signed with foreign companies over the past year and carried out careful analyses to  identify the vulnerable clauses in the contracts. Reflecting on the major legal disputes in the past three  years, COSCO Group classifies, summarizes carefully the experiences and lessons, and collected the issues  related to intellectual property rights in enterprises.   For the management of legal affairs, the company practices the legal suggestion system, clearly defining  that written legal submissions must be issued by the legal departments before major investment  decision-making, restructuring, merger, reorganization, and the signing of major contracts. The Guidelines  for Contract Management are formulated, clarifying the responsibilities of contract management  departments at all levels, detailing the signing, fulfillment, disputes, numbering and archiving related to the  contracts. A classified contract management system is established, and the Approach for Trademark  Management is formulated, regulating the flow of intellectual property rights and providing strong support  for the protection of intellectual property and brand values.   
DNV Assurance Statement    COSCO Sustainability Report 2008      Page 1 of 2                                                                                                                       DNV Assurance Statements  2009609012  Det Norske Veritas (DNV) has been commissioned by the  management of China Ocean Shipping (Group) Company  (COSCO) to carry out an assurance engagement on  COSCOs Sustainability Report 2008 (the Report ) in its  printed format.  This is the forth time COSCO has published its Annual  Sustainability Report and invited a third-party agency to  conduct an independent assurance.  Scope of Assurance  The Scope of DNVs assurance is to assess whether the  disclosed critical information, data and management  support systems are in compliance with the relevant  reporting principles and criteria of reliability.  Limitation of Assurance  DNVs assurance team visited the head office of COSCO in  Beijing, but did not visit any site office or external  stakeholders.  DNV selected three second-tier subsidiaries for on-site  assurance at their locations in China:    COSCO Container Lines Company Ltd. (Shanghai)    Qingdao Ocean Shipping Company Ltd. (Qingdao)    COSCO Logistics Co., Ltd. (Beijing)  Assurance Approach  The assurance engagement was conducted from November  2008 to July 2009 and performed in accordance with the  requirements of the DNV Assurance Protocol for  Sustainability Reporting. The Report has been evaluated  against the following criteria:  Adherence to the principles of stakeholder inclusiveness,  materiality,  responsiveness,  completeness,  reliability,  neutrality, comparability and accuracy as set out in the  "AA1000 Assurance Standards 2008 and The Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2006 Sustainability Reporting  Guidelines Version 3.0.    The DNV assurance team has undertaken the following  work to reach conclusions regarding the Report:    Information search in public media to identify concerns  of COSCO stakeholders    Evaluation and ranking of the material CSR risks of  COSCO, based on the DNV Assurance Protocol for  Sustainability Reporting    Interviews with COSCOs senior management team to  understand the top level commitment and strategic  approach to sustainability    Interviews  with  departmental  representatives  to  understand the management procedures and their status  of implementation    Examination and tracking of reported data and  information, including a site-visit, to verify the  methodology of data compilation and aggregation    Comparison of COSCOs CSR reporting data over  several years to understand the progress and trends in  corporate social responsibility performance  Conclusions  In our opinion, the Report provides a fair representation of  the level to which COSCOs sustainability policies have  been implemented throughout its business units. No  material or systematic errors were observed in the reporting.  Compared with last years report COSCO has included  more details in the explanations of their mission, vision and  values, and has included a systematic SWOT analysis of the  main impacts, risks, opportunities and solutions which have  formed the basis of the companys strategy map.  In the process of the assurance engagement, DNV also  identified some opportunities for improvement which have  been included in the DNV Assurance Report.  Stakeholder Inclusiveness  The Report illustrates COSCOs commitment to be  accountable to stakeholders and ensure that stakeholders  participate in the identification of relevant issues and  solutions.  The formal engagement mechanisms for interaction with  stakeholders and the selection criteria of responding  indicators could be further improved to coordinate and  balance the expectations of stakeholders.  Materiality  The  Report  discloses  the  companys  sustainability  performance indicators and information regarding the main  stakeholders affected.  DNV recommends that further improvements focus on  developing policy and judgment criteria of material issues  based on industry best practices, and quantification of  material indicators.    
DNV Assurance Statement    COSCO Sustainability Report 2008      Page 2 of 2                                                                                                                       DNV Assurance Statements  2009609012  Responsiveness  The Report illustrates COSCOs mission, strategy and  performance  indicators,  providing  objective  data  corresponding to the major concerns of the main  stakeholders.  To further improve the clarity of their communication to  stakeholders in the future, COSCO is recommended to  include information about their concrete commitments and  an action plan which reflects stakeholders concerns.   Completeness  The Report disclosed the key issues and performance  information of the 2008 reporting period which covered  COSCO head-office and all subsidiaries.  Regarding areas of improvement, it is recommended that  the Report increase the focus on social indicators (e.g.  related to labor relations such as statistics and analysis of  the rate of work-related injuries and loss of working time)  and environmental indicators (such as waste management  generated from ships).  Reliability  COSCO has established a dedicated Corporate Social  Responsibility management office and processes to collect,  compile and analyze data and information. These  procedures are found to be effective.  Accuracy  DNV has not found any material inaccuracies in the  reported data that may significantly affect the comparability  of selected key performance indicators. However, it is noted  that for the future the reporting boundaries and definition  for some performance indicators should be more clearly  defined.                        Neutrality  The DNV assurance team concluded that the information  contained in the report is unbiased and reflect a balanced  view  of  COSCOs  corporate  social  responsibility  performance.  Comparability  The information in the Report is presented in a format that  allows users to see positive and negative trends in  performance on a year-to-year basis. The company could  further improve comparability by reinforcing horizontal  comparisons with the industry.  DNV is confident that COSCO will improve their corporate  social responsibility management systems and the quality of  the report on a continuous basis.  DNVs Independence  The independence of DNVs assurance engagement team is  ensured by internal control procedures and the following  principles:    The total independence of assurance staff during  working period.    Keeping confidentiality of all the sensitive information  of COSCO;    No conflicts of interests between Assurance staff and  COSCO.   DNV expressly disclaims any liability or responsibility for  any decision a person or entity would make based on this  Assurance Statement.    Wang, Xuezhu  CSR Services Manager  Region Greater China  Det Norske Veritas.   July. 2009    Zhang Jun  Team Leader  Region Greater China  Det Norske Veritas.   July. 2009            VOGTH-ERIKSEN,Thomas  Vic President  Det Norske Veritas.  Jully,2009  
G3 Content Index  STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures  1. Strategy and Analysis  Profile  Disclosure  Description  Reference  Reason  Explanation 1.1  Statement from the most senior  decision-maker of the organization  P3 Part A Strategies and General  Information/Part I Statement of the  President and Strategies/I. Statement  of the President        1.2  Description of key impacts, risks,  and opportunities.   P9 Part A Strategies and General  Information/Part I Statement of the  President and Strategies/III. Analysis  on primary influences, risks,  opportunities and countermeasures of  sustainable evelopment/Analysis on  primary influences of sustainable  development;P11 risks, and  opportunities.;P12 Analysis on  primary countermeasures for  sustainable development        2. Organizational Profile  Profile  Disclosure  Description  Reference  Reason  Explanation 2.1  Name of the organization.  P13 Part A Strategies and General  Information/Part II General  Information of COSCO        2.2  Primary brands, products, and/or  services.   P13 Part A Strategies and General  Information/Part II General  Information of COSCO        2.3  Operational structure of the  organization, including main  divisions, operating companies,  subsidiaries, and joint ventures.  P15  Part A Strategies and General  Information/Part III Basic profile of  companies implementing sustainable  development management system;P15  I. Shipping;P19 II. Logistics;P20 III.  Ship-building and ship-repairing;P22  IV. Others;P25 V. Overseas  companies;        2.4  Location of organization's  headquarters.  P13Part A Strategies and General  Information/ /Part II General  Information of COSCO        2.5  Number of countries where the  organization operates, and names of  countries with either major  operations or that are specifically  relevant to the sustainability issues  covered in the report.  P13-14 Part A Strategies and General  Information/ /Part II General  Information of COSCO        2.6  Nature of ownership and legal  form.  P13-14 Part A Strategies and General  Information /Part II General  information of COSCO;P14-25  Part  A Strategies and General  Information/Part III Basic profile of  companies implementing sustainable  development management system        
2.7  Markets served (including  geographic breakdown, sectors  served, and types of  customers/beneficiaries).  P13-14  Part A Strategies and  General Information /Part II General  information of COSCO;P14-25  Part  A Strategies and General  Information/Part III Basic profile of  companies implementing sustainable  development management system        2.8  Scale of the reporting organization. P12-13  Part A Strategies and  General Information /Part II General  information of COSCO;P14-24  Part  A Strategies and General  Information/Part III Basic profile of  companies implementing sustainable  development management system        2.9  Significant changes during the  reporting period regarding size,  structure, or ownership.  P25  Part A Strategies and General  Information/Part III Basic profile of  companies implementing sustainable  development management system        2.10  Awards received in the reporting  period.  P26 Part A Strategies and General  Information /Part  Awards;P26 I.  Awards relating to Global Compact  and social responsibilities;P27 II. A  summary of international and  domestic awards won by COSCO  Group in 2008        3. Report Parameters  Profile  Disclosure  Description  Reference  Reason  Explanation 3.1  Reporting period (e.g.,  fiscal/calendar year) for  information provided.  P33 Part A Strategies and General  Information /Part V General  information of the report/I. Scope of  report        3.2  Date of most recent previous report  (if any).  P64  Part B Management and  Participation of Stakeholders/Part III  Global Compact, overall risk  management and sustainable  development /(IV) Achievement of  COSCO Group Sustainable  Development Report        3.3  Reporting cycle (annual, biennial,  etc.)  P33 Part A Strategies and General  Information /Part V General  information of the report/I. Scope of  report        3.4  Contact point for questions  regarding the report or its contents. P33  Part A Strategies and General  Information /Part V General  information of the report/I. Scope of  report        3.5  Process for defining report content. P29 Part A Strategies and General  Information /Part V General  information of the report/I. Scope of  report        
3.6  Boundary of the report (e.g.,  countries, divisions, subsidiaries,  leased facilities, joint ventures,  suppliers). See GRI Boundary  Protocol for further guidance.  P29 Part A Strategies and General  Information /Part V General  information of the report/I. Scope of  report        3.7  State any specific limitations on the  scope or boundary of the report  (see completeness principle for  explanation of scope). I  P29 Part A Strategies and General  Information /Part V General  information of the report/I. Scope of  report        3.8  Basis for reporting on joint  ventures, subsidiaries, leased  facilities, outsourced operations,  and other entities that can  significantly affect comparability  from period to period and/or  between organizations.  P29  Part A Strategies and General  Information /Part V General  information of the report/I. Scope of  report        3.9  Data measurement techniques and  the bases of calculations, including  assumptions and techniques  underlying estimations applied to  the compilation of the Indicators  and other information in the report.  Explain any decisions not to apply,  or to substantially diverge from, the  GRI Indicator Protocols.  P34 Part A Strategies and General  Information /Part V General  information of the report/II. Report  compilation principles        3.10  Explanation of the effect of any  re-statements of information  provided in earlier reports, and the  reasons for such re-statement  (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change  of base years/periods, nature of  business, measurement methods).  P34 Part A Strategies and General  Information /Part V General  information of the report/II. Report  compilation principles        3.11  Significant changes from previous  reporting periods in the scope,  boundary, or measurement methods  applied in the report.  P34 Part A Strategies and General  Information /Part V General  information of the report/II. Report  compilation principles        3.12  Table identifying the location of the  Standard Disclosures in the report.  excursus/index        3.13  Policy and current practice with  regard to seeking external  assurance for the report.   P35  Part A Strategies and General  Information /Part V General  information of the report/III. Report  guarantee methods        4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement  Profile  Disclosure  Description  Reference  Reason  Explanation 4.1  Governance structure of the  organization, including committees  under the highest governance body  responsible for specific tasks, such  as setting strategy or organizational  oversight.  P39 Part B Management and  Participation of Stakeholders/Part I  Corporate Governance Structure/P39  1. Top management team;P40 2.  Related committees      
4.2  Indicate whether the Chair of the  highest governance body is also an  executive officer.  P39 Part B Management and  Participation of Stakeholders/Part I  Corporate Governance Structure/P39  1. Top management team      4.3  For organizations that have a  unitary board structure, state the  number of members of the highest  governance body that are  independent and/or non-executive  members.  cannot obtain  Not  applicable      4.4  Mechanisms for shareholders and  employees to provide  recommendations or direction to  the highest governance body.  P39Part B Management and  Participation of Stakeholders/Part I  Corporate Governance Structure/P41  3. Decision-making mechanism; 42 4.  Communication mechanism      4.5  Linkage between compensation for  members of the highest governance  body, senior managers, and  executives (including departure  arrangements), and the  organization's performance  (including social and environmental  performance).  P39 Part B Management and  Participation of Stakeholders/Part I  Corporate Governance Structure/P42  6. Supervision over the management  team;P43 7. Performance evaluation  mechanism      4.6  Processes in place for the highest  governance body to ensure  conflicts of interest are avoided.  P39  Part B Management and  Participation of Stakeholders/Part I  Corporate Governance Structure/P41  3. Decision-making mechanism;P42 4.  Communication mechanism;P42 6.  Supervision over the management  team;P43 7. Performance evaluation  mechanism      4.7  Process for determining the  qualifications and expertise of the  members of the highest governance  body for guiding the organization's  strategy on economic,  environmental, and social topics.  P39Part B Management and  Participation of Stakeholders/Part I  Corporate Governance Structure/P42  6. Supervision over the management  team/P43 7. Performance evaluation  mechanism/8. Personnel evaluation  mechanism      4.8  Internally developed statements of  mission or values, codes of  conduct, and principles relevant to  economic, environmental, and  social performance and the status of  their implementation.  P39  Part B Management and  Participation of Stakeholders/Part I  Corporate Governance Structure/P35  5. Internal statement, behavioral  principles and implementation  situations relating to  economic,environmental and social  performance      4.9  Procedures of the highest  governance body for overseeing the  organization's identification and  management of economic,  environmental, and social  performance, including relevant  risks and opportunities, and  adherence or compliance with  internationally agreed standards,  codes of conduct, and principles.  P46 Part B Management and  Participation of Stakeholders/Part II  Major policies and ,anagement  systems/P46 1. Overview of  management system;P47 2. Overview  of COSCO Group management  system;P50 3. Management system  construction of companies;P51 4.  Certifications obtained      
4.10  Processes for evaluating the highest  governance body's own  performance, particularly with  respect to economic,  environmental, and social  performance.  P54 Part B Management and  Participation of Stakeholders/Part III  Global Compact, overall risk  management and sustainable  development/P55 (III) Implementation  of Global Compact and sustainable  development of COSCO Group in  2008;P58 5. On-site evaluation and  internal auditing      4.11  Explanation of whether and how  the precautionary approach or  principle is addressed by the  organization.  P54 Part B Strategy and  managementPart III Global Compact,  overall risk management and  sustainable development/P55 (II)  COSCO Groups promotion of Global  Compact and implementation of  sustainable development;P55 (III)  Implementation of Global Compact  and sustainable development of  COSCO Group in 2008;P56 1.  Construction of sustainable  development management system;P56  2. Construction of sustainable  development indicator system;P57 3.  Serial trainings on sustainable  development;P58 4. Assessment of  sustainable development report;P60 6.  Audit of management system and  sustainable development report;P61 7.  Establishing strict compilation process  and communication mechanism for  sustainable development and social  responsibility report, and cautiously  issuing the sustainable development  report;P62 9. COSCO Group will  raise the level of IT application to  pursue sustainable development and  establish a highly efficient reporting  mechanism.P67 III. IT facilitates the  Group to realize ERM and sustainable  management      4.12  Externally developed economic,  environmental, and social charters,  principles, or other initiatives to  which the organization subscribes  or endorses.  P54 Part B Strategy and  managementPart III Global Compact,  overall risk management and  sustainable development/P74 2.  Actively supporting and participating  in UN Global Compact;P 3. Taking  active part in the project of WBCSD  World Shipping Sustainable  Development Indicator  Guidelines;P75 . Signing Acting on  Climate Change and Universal  Declaration of Human Rights      4.13  Memberships in associations (such  as industry associations) and/or  national/international advocacy  organizations in which the  P39 Part B Management and  Participation of Stakeholders/Part I  Corporate Governance Structure/P43  9. Participation in associations      
organization: * Has positions in  governance bodies; * Participates  in projects or committees; *  Provides substantive funding  beyond routine membership dues;  or * Views membership as  strategic.  4.14  List of stakeholder groups engaged  by the organization.  P70 Part B Management and  Participation of Stakeholders/Part IV.  Participation of stakeholders      4.15  Basis for identification and  selection of stakeholders with  whom to engage.  P70 Part B Management and  Participation of Stakeholders/Part IV.  Participation of stakeholders      4.16  Approaches to stakeholder  engagement, including frequency  of engagement by type and by  stakeholder group.  P70 Part B Management and  Participation of Stakeholders/Part IV.  Participation of stakeholders      4.17  Key topics and concerns that have  been raised through stakeholder  engagement, and how the  organization has responded to those  key topics and concerns, including  through its reporting.  P70 Part B Management and  Participation of Stakeholders/Part IV.  Participation of stakeholders/P74 1.  Actively responding to the call of  SASAC, and setting an example of  fulfilling social responsibility;P74 3.  Taking active part in the project of  WBCSD World Shipping Sustainable  Development Indicator  Guidelines;P75 7. Organizing World  Shipping Summit 2008;P76 8.  International exchange activities;P78  10. Actively participating in and  supporting the popularization of GRI  Sustainable Development  Guideline and AA1000 Sustainable  Development Assurance Standards      STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs)  G3 DMA  Description  Reference        DMA EC  Disclosure on Management  Approach EC  P80-82 Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part I Economic  performance indicator and key  report/I. Management approaches        DMA EN  Disclosure on Management  Approach EN  P102-103 Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part II Environmental  performance indicators and theme  report/I. Management measures        DMA LA  Disclosure on Management  Approach LA  P127-128 Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part IV Labor relation  performance indicators and theme  report/I. Management approaches        DMA HR  Disclosure on Management  Approach HR  P149-150 Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part V Human rights  performance indicators and theme  report/1. Management approaches        
DMA SO  Disclosure on Management  Approach SO  P161-162 Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part VI Social performance  indicators and theme report/1.  Management approaches        DMA PR  Disclosure on Management  Approach PR  P117-118 Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part III Product liability  performance indicator and key  report/I. Management approaches        STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators  Economic  Performance  Indicator  Description  Reference  Reason  Explanation EC1  Direct economic value generated  and distributed, including revenues,  operating costs, employee  compensation, donations and other  community investments, retained  earnings, and payments to capital  providers and governments.  P83 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part I  Economic performance indicator and  key report/II. Performance  indicators/(I) Direct economic value  created and distributed by COSCO  Group/P83 1. Direct economic value  created;P85 2. Operational costs;P87  3. Salaries and welfares of  employees;P87 4. Payment to capital  providers;P90 6. Social investments  and inputs;P90 5. Payment to the  Government         EC2  Financial implications and other  risks and opportunities for the  organization's activities due to  climate change.   P94 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part I  Economic performance indicator and  key report/II. Performance  indicators/(II) Financial inputs for  climate changes/P95 (2) Financial  influences of climate changes on  COSCO Group;P94 (1) Risks caused  by climate changes        EC3  Coverage of the organization's  defined benefit plan obligations.   P95 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part I  Economic performance indicator and  key report/II. Performance  indicators/(III) Fixed welfare plan        EC4  Significant financial assistance  received from government.   P96 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part I  Economic performance indicator and  key report/II. Performance  indicators/(IV) Financial supports  provided by the Government        EC5  Range of ratios of standard entry  level wage compared to local  minimum wage at significant  locations of operation.  P96 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part I  Economic performance indicator and  key report/II. Performance  indicators/(V) Minimum salary and  comparison with the standards        
EC6  Policy, practices, and proportion of  spending on locally-based suppliers  at significant locations of operation.  P96 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part I  Economic performance indicator and  key report/II. Performance  indicators/(VI) Procurement and  supplier        EC7  Procedures for local hiring and  proportion of senior management  hired from the local community at  significant locations of operation.   P97 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part I  Economic performance indicator and  key report/II. Performance  indicators/(VII) COSCO Group's  procedures of employing local  employees in important operation  regions and  the proportion of local senior  executives        EC8  Development and impact of  infrastructure investments and  services provided primarily for  public benefit through commercial,  in-kind, or pro bono engagement.   P97 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part I  Economic performance indicator and  key report/II. Performance  indicators/(VIII) Infrastructure  investment and services for public  welfares by        EC9  Understanding and describing  significant indirect economic  impacts, including the extent of  impacts.   P98 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part I  Economic performance indicator and  key report/II. Performance  indicators/(IX) Important indirect  economical influences/P98 1. COSCO  Group's input on technology R&D and  achievements;P100 2. Creation of  employment opportunities         Environmental  Performance  Indicator  Description  Reference  Reason  Explanation EN1  Materials used by weight or  volume.   P104 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part II  Environmental performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/1. Raw materials/P104 (1)  Indirect material usage mainly         EN2  Percentage of materials used that  are recycled input materials.   P104Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part II  Environmental performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/1. Raw materials/P104 (3)  Spare parts and materials renovation  and reusing;P105 (4) Reducing burden  of office environment.        EN3  Direct energy consumption by  primary energy source.   P105 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part II  Environmental performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/2. Energy/P105 Total  energy consumption;P106 Energy        
consumptions of COSCO Group in  recent few years;P106 Fuel  consumption indicators of main fleets  of COSCO Group in recent few  years;P109 Total electricity  consumption of COSCO Group in  2003-2008  EN4  Indirect energy consumption by  primary source.  P105 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part II  Environmental performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/2. Energy/P106 Energy  consumptions of COSCO Group in  recent few years        EN5  Energy saved due to conservation  and efficiency improvements.  P105 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part II  Environmental performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/2. Energy/P105 Total   energy consumption;P106 Energy  consumptions of COSCO Group in  recent few years;P106 Fuel  consumption indicators of main fleets  of COSCO Group in recent few  years;P109 Total electricity  consumption of COSCO Group in  2003-2008        EN6  Initiatives to provide  energy-efficient or renewable  energy based products and services,  and reductions in energy  requirements as a result of these  initiatives.   P105  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part II Environmental  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance indicators/2.  Energy/P106 (1) In advocacy of  energy-saving and emission  reduction;P106 (2) Energy  Saving;P106 Energy-saving required  full participation and consensus;P106  Energy-conservation by  technologies;P108  Energy-conservation  management;P109 Energy  conservation in office        EN7  Initiatives to reduce indirect energy  consumption and reductions  achieved.   P105  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part II Environmental  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance indicators/2.  Energy/P106 (1) In advocacy of  energy-saving and emission  reduction;P106 (2) Energy  Saving;P106 Energy-saving required  full participation and consensus;P106  Energy-conservation by  technologies;P108  Energy-conservation  management;P109 Energy  conservation in office        
EN8  Total water withdrawal by source.  P109  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part II Environmental  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance indicators/3.  Water resources/P110 Water  consumption of COSCO Group from  2004 to 2008        EN9  Water sources significantly affected  by withdrawal of water.   P109  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part II Environmental  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance indicators/3.  Water resources/P110 Water  consumption of COSCO Group from  2004 to 2008        EN10  Percentage and total volume of  water recycled and reused.   P109  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part II Environmental  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance indicators/3.  Water resources/P110 Water  consumption of COSCO Group from  2004 to 2008        EN11  Location and size of land owned,  leased, managed in, or adjacent to,  protected areas and areas of high  biodiversity value outside protected  areas.  P110 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part II  Environmental performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/4. Bio-diversity/P110 (2)  Ship ballast water management;P110  (3) COSCO Group Boao eco-garden  construction        EN12  Description of significant impacts  of activities, products, and services  on biodiversity in protected areas  and areas of high biodiversity value  outside protected areas.   P110 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part II  Environmental performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/4. Bio-diversity/P110 (2)  Ship ballast water management;P110  (3) COSCO Group Boao eco-garden  construction        EN13  Habitats protected or restored.   P110 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part II  Environmental performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/4. Bio-diversity/P110 (3)  COSCO Group Boao eco-garden  construction        EN14  Strategies, current actions, and  future plans for managing impacts  on biodiversity.  P110  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part II Environmental  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance indicators/4.  Bio-diversity/P110 (1) The use of  non-toxic paint;P110 (2) Ship ballast  water management;P110 (3) COSCO  Group Boao eco-garden construction        
EN15  Number of IUCN Red List species  and national conservation list  species with habitats in areas  affected by operations, by level of  extinction risk.   P107 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part II  Environmental performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/4. Bio-diversity        EN16  Total direct and indirect  greenhouse gas emissions by  weight.   P111  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part II Environmental  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance indicators/5.  Exhaust gas, sewage and waste/P111  (1) Exhaust gas emission (direct  emissions);P112 Indirect carbon  dioxide emissions:        EN17  Other relevant indirect greenhouse  gas emissions by weight.   P111 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part II  Environmental performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/5. Exhaust gas, sewage and  waste/P111 Emissions for unit  turnover volume        EN18  Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas  emissions and reductions achieved. P111  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part II Environmental  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance indicators/5.  Exhaust gas, sewage and waste/P111  (2) Use of low-sulfur fuel to reduce  emissions of sulfur oxides;P111 (3)  Use of desulfurization and dedusting  equipment;P111 (4) Replace acetylene  gas with high efficiency and clean  natural gas;P112 (6) All ships of   COSCO Group own the International  Oil Pollution Prevention (IOPP)  Certificates;P112 (7) The Green  Flag program.        EN19  Emissions of ozone-depleting  substances by weight.   P111 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part II  Environmental performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/5. Exhaust gas, sewage and  waste/P112 (8) Reduction of  emissions of ozone depleting  substances.        EN20  NOx, SOx, and other significant air  emissions by type and weight.   P111 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part II  Environmental performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/5. Exhaust gas, sewage and  waste/P111 Emissions for unit  turnover volume        
EN21  Total water discharge by quality  and destination.   P111  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part II Environmental  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance indicators/5.  Exhaust gas, sewage and waste/P113  Oil residues pollution discharged to  the sea and pollution discharge and  shore-returning volume        EN22  Total weight of waste by type and  disposal method.   P111  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part II Environmental  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance indicators/5.  Exhaust gas, sewage and waste/P113  Solid wastes: COSCO Group  collected and disposed solid wastes  according to regulations as specified  in the appendixes of MARPOL  Convention;P113 Processing and  disposal rate of industrial wastes of  ships (including garbage, oil dirt and  residues)reached 100%;P113 Waste  disposal volume: COSCO Group   collected and incinerated wastes  according to the  requirements of international  conventions.        EN23  Total number and volume of  significant spills.   P111  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part II Environmental  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance indicators/5.  Exhaust gas, sewage and waste/P113  (12) Serious spillage accidents.        EN24  Weight of transported, imported,  exported, or treated waste deemed  hazardous under the terms of the  Basel Convention Annex I, II, III,  and VIII, and percentage of  transported waste shipped  internationally.   P111 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part II  Environmental performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/5. Exhaust gas, sewage and  waste/P112 (9) Oil residues, sewage  and wastes.;P113 (11) In 2008,  COSCO continued to enhance the  environmental protection work in  offices;P114 (14) Enhance resource  recycling and comprehensive  utilization.        EN25  Identity, size, protected status, and  biodiversity value of water bodies  and related habitats significantly  affected by the reporting  organization's discharges of water  and runoff.   P111 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part II  Environmental performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/5. Exhaust gas, sewage and  waste/P111 (5) Pollution accidents  prevention, drainage system function  recovery.        
EN26  Initiatives to mitigate  environmental impacts of products  and services, and extent of impact  mitigation.  P114 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part II  Environmental performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/6. Products and services        EN27  Percentage of products sold and  their packaging materials that are  reclaimed by category.   P111 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part II  Environmental performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/5. Exhaust gas, sewage and  waste/P114 (14) Enhance resource  recycling and comprehensive  utilization.        EN28  Monetary value of significant fines  and total number of non-monetary  sanctions for non-compliance with  environmental laws and  regulations.   P114  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part II Environmental  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance indicators/7.  Regulations        EN29  Significant environmental impacts  of transporting products and other  goods and materials used for the  organization's operations, and  transporting members of the  workforce.   P115  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part II Environmental  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance indicators/8.  Traffic transportation        EN30  Total environmental protection  expenditures and investments by  type.  P115 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part II  Environmental performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/9. General situation/P115  Total expenses and investment on  environmental protection;P115  Statistics on main inputs for  environmental protection:        Social: Product Responsibility   Performance  Indicator  Description  Reference  Reason  Explanation PR1  Life cycle stages in which health  and safety impacts of products and  services are assessed for  improvement, and percentage of  significant products and services  categories subject to such  procedures.   P121  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part III Product liability  performance indicator and key  report/II. Performance indicators/1.  Customer health and safety        PR2  Total number of incidents of  non-compliance with regulations  and voluntary codes concerning  health and safety impacts of  products and services during their  life cycle, by type of outcomes.   P121  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part III Product liability  performance indicator and key  report/II. Performance indicators/1.  Customer health and safety        PR3  Type of product and service  information required by  procedures, and percentage of  significant products and services  subject to such information  requirements.   P122 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part III  Product liability performance  indicator and key report/II.  Performance indicators/2. Products  and service logos        
PR4  Total number of incidents of  non-compliance with regulations  and voluntary codes concerning  product and service information  and labeling, by type of outcomes.  P122  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part III Product liability  performance indicator and key  report/II. Performance indicators/2.  Products and service logos        PR5  Practices related to customer  satisfaction, including results of  surveys measuring customer  satisfaction.   P122 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part III  Product liability performance  indicator and key report/II.  Performance indicators/2. Products  and service logos/P122 (2)  Continuous improvement of customer  satisfaction and information collection  mechanism        PR6  Programs for adherence to laws,  standards, and voluntary codes  related to marketing  communications, including  advertising, promotion, and  sponsorship.   P122-123 Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part III Product liability  performance indicator and key  report/II. Performance indicators/3.  Market promotion and publication        PR7  Total number of incidents of  non-compliance with regulations  and voluntary codes concerning  marketing communications,  including advertising, promotion,  and sponsorship by type of  outcomes.   P122 -123 Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part III Product liability  performance indicator and key  report/II. Performance indicators/3.  Market promotion and publication        PR8  Total number of substantiated  complaints regarding breaches of  customer privacy and losses of  customer data.   P124 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part III  Product liability performance  indicator and key report/II.  Performance indicators/4. Customer  privacy/P124 Developing and using  software to manage customers  information        PR9  Monetary value of significant fines  for non-compliance with laws and  regulations concerning the  provision and use of products and  services.   P124 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part III  Product liability performance  indicator and key report/II.  Performance indicators/5. Law  compliance        Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work  Performance  Indicator  Description  Reference  Reason  Explanation LA1  Total workforce by employment  type, employment contract, and  region.   P130 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part (IV)  Labor relation performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  Indicators/1. Employee  employment/P130 (1) Employee  structure        
LA2  Total number and rate of employee  turnover by age group, gender, and  region.   P130  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part IV Labor relation  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance Indicators/1.  Employee employment/P130 (2)  Analyses on employees leaves and  losses        LA3  Benefits provided to full-time  employees that are not provided to  temporary or part-time employees,  by major operations.   P130  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part IV Labor relation  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance Indicators/1.  Employee employment/P130(3)  Holiday system;P131 (4) Insurance  and welfares of employees.        LA4  Percentage of employees covered  by collective bargaining  agreements.  P131  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part IV Labor relation  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance Indicators/2.  Relations between labors and  management team/P131 (1) Working  mechanism and performances of labor  unions        LA5  Minimum notice period(s)  regarding significant operational  changes, including whether it is  specified in collective agreements.  P131  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part IV Labor relation  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance Indicators/2.  Relations between labors and  management team/P132 (2) Labor  Contract Signing Situation.        LA6  Percentage of total workforce  represented in formal joint  management-worker health and  safety committees that help monitor  and advise on occupational health  and safety programs.   P132 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part IV  Labor relation performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  Indicators/3. Safety and occupational  health/P132 (1) Safety Production and  Occupational Health Management  Mechanism.        LA7  Rates of injury, occupational  diseases, lost days, and  absenteeism, and number of  work-related fatalities by region.  P132  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part IV Labor relation  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance Indicators/3.  Safety and occupational health/134 (2)  Safety and occupational health work.        LA8  Education, training, counseling,  prevention, and risk-control  programs in place to assist  workforce members, their families,  or community members regarding  serious diseases.  P132  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part IV Labor relation  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance Indicators/3.  Safety and occupational health/P134  (3) Safety and occupational health  work implementation measures        
LA9  Health and safety topics covered in  formal agreements with trade  unions.   P132 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part IV  Labor relation performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  Indicators/3. Safety and occupational  health/P142 (4) Staff health and  disease prevention.        LA10  Average hours of training per year  per employee by employee  category.   P144 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part IV  Labor relation performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  Indicators/4. Training and  examination/P144 (1) Training of top  management of the group;P144 (2)  All-staff training.        LA11  Programs for skills management  and lifelong learning that support  the continued employability of  employees and assist them in  managing career endings.   P144 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part IV  Labor relation performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  Indicators/4. Training and   examination/P144 (3) Various types  of professionals training;P145 (4)  Three Three Hundred Talent Project  Construction;P145 (5) Bid for  National High Skilled Professionals  Training Base;P145 (6) Crew  Training;P146 (7) Migrant Worker  Training;P146 (8) Labor Protection  Training        LA12  Percentage of employees receiving  regular performance and career  development reviews.  P144  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part IV Labor relation  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance Indicators/4.  Training and examination/P146  cohesion and strengthened the  incentive role of enterprise training.        LA13  Composition of governance bodies  and breakdown of employees per  category according to gender, age  group, minority group membership,  and other indicators of diversity.  P142  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part IV Labor relation  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance Indicators/5.  Diversification and  opportunities/P147 (1) Gender, age  and minority nationalities (foreigners)  of members of management team.        LA14  Ratio of basic salary of men to  women by employee category.   P142 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part IV  Labor relation performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  Indicators/5. Diversification and  opportunities/P148 (2) Basic salary  policies and practical situation of male  and female employees.        
Social: Human Rights  Performance  Indicator  Description  Reference  Reason  Explanation HR1  Percentage and total number of  significant investment agreements  that include human rights clauses or  that have undergone human rights  screening.   P151 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part V  Human rights performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/1. Investment and  purchase/P151 (1) Investment        HR2  Percentage of significant suppliers  and contractors that have  undergone screening on human  rights and actions taken.   P151Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part V  Human rights performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/1. Investment and  purchase/P151 (2) Purchase        HR3  Total hours of employee training on  policies and procedures concerning  aspects of human rights that are  relevant to operations, including the  percentage of employees trained.   P151 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part V  Human rights performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/1. Investment and  purchase/P151 (3) Human rights  training        HR4  Total number of incidents of  discrimination and actions taken.  P151 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part V  Human rights performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/2. Non-discrimination/P152  (1) COSCO Group provides equal  career development opportunities for  all the employees;P152 (2) Women  Workers committees;P152 (3) At  present, the COSCO Group's staff is  divided into land-based  employees;P153 (4) Cultural life of  workers;P154 (5) Care of employees  and their families        HR5  Operations identified in which the  right to exercise freedom of  association and collective  bargaining may be at significant  risk, and actions taken to support  these rights.   P156  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part V Human rights  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance indicators/3.  Freedom of association and collective  /P157 (1) Continue to deepen the  openness of factory affairs, and  construct advanced reporting system  for major events;P158 (2) Employees  Congress System        HR6  Operations identified as having  significant risk for incidents of  child labor, and measures taken to  contribute to the elimination of  child labor.   P158 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part V  Human rights performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/4. Child labor        
HR7  Operations identified as having  significant risk for incidents of  forced or compulsory labor, and  measures to contribute to the  elimination of forced or  compulsory labor.   P159 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part V  Human rights performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/5. Enforced and compelled  labor        HR8  Percentage of security personnel  trained in the organization's  policies or procedures concerning  aspects of human rights that are  relevant to operations.   P159 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part V  Human rights performance indicators  and theme report/II. Performance  indicators/6. Safety and security        HR9  Total number of incidents of  violations involving rights of  indigenous people and actions  taken.  P160  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part V Human rights  performance indicators and theme  report/II. Performance indicators/7.  Rights of indigenous people        Social: Society  Performance  Indicator  Description  Reference  Reason  Explanation SO1  Nature, scope, and effectiveness of  any programs and practices that  assess and manage the impacts of  operations on communities,  including entering, operating, and  exiting.   P164  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part VI Social performance  indicators and theme report/II.  Performance indicators/1.  Community/P164 (1) Strengthen the  cooperation with related parties and  construct harmonious  communities;P165 (2) Active  promotion of environmental  protection in communities, and  improvement of community  environment with practical  actions;P166 (3) COSCO Logistics  checks in advance the environment in  the process of road transport to reduce  impact on the communities;P166 (4)  Participation in community activities  in a variety of forms, and fulfillment  of social responsibility        SO2  Percentage and total number of  business units analyzed for risks  related to corruption.   P165 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part VI  Social performance indicators and   theme report/II. Performance  indicators/2. Anti-corruption/P166 (2)  Continue to carryout self-examination  and self-correction activities; further  fulfill the system of Three Important  and One Big, and Seven  Requirements        SO3  Percentage of employees trained in  organization's anti-corruption  policies and procedures.   P166Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part VI  Social performance indicators and  theme report/II. Performance  indicators/2. Anti-corruption/P168 (4)  Actively carry out anti-corruption        
education, and further increase  honesty awareness  SO4  Actions taken in response to  incidents of corruption.  P166  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part VI Social performance  indicators and theme report/II.  Performance indicators/2.  Anti-corruption/P166 (1) Integrate the  punitive and preventive system into  operation and management, and  further deepen the construction of the  anti-corruption campaign;P167 (3)  Carry out in-depth supervision and  inspection, further standardize  operation management;P168 (4)  Actively carry out anti-corruption  education, and further increase  honesty awareness;P168 (5) Properly  deal with complaint and report cases,  and severely punish corruption;P169  (6) Strengthening of internal audit and  promotion of further improvement of  operation and management        SO5  Public policy positions and  participation in public policy  development and lobbying.   P168  Part C Management  approaches and performance  indicators/Part VI Social performance  indicators and theme report/II.  Performance indicators/3. Public  policies/P168 (1) Position for public  policies, and participation in  developing and advocating public  policies        SO6  Total value of financial and in-kind  contributions to political parties,  politicians, and related institutions  by country.  P169 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part VI  Social performance indicators and  theme report/II. Performance  indicators/3. Public policies/P171 (2)  Donations of money and goods to the  political parties, politicians and  institutions in various countries        SO7  Total number of legal actions for  anti-competitive behavior,  anti-trust, and monopoly practices  and their outcomes.   P171 Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part VI  Social performance indicators and  theme report/II. Performance  indicators/4. Anti-competitive  practices/        SO8  Monetary value of significant fines  and total number of non-monetary  sanctions for non-compliance with  laws and regulations.   P171Part C Management approaches  and performance indicators/Part VI  Social performance indicators and  theme report/II. Performance  indicators/5. Conformity with laws  and regulations          